project has already started

SME talk to you...convert their English into files, functions and variables. ( being a programmer)
yesterday .. review some feedback..  self testing oneself is a good skill to have in any learning..
we have multiple things to do,, in that case depending on noisy gland or organ called brain is a bad idea..
depend on checklist.
technical checklist.. we will make one.
we will continue entertainment with javascript.. ( javascript is a new language and be conscious)


Reality we have to adapt according to what is expected from us..

pdf

0. eternal rule in writing technical things, write numbered points and dont write paragraphs or bullets.
1. folder which contains the assingments readme.txt
2. we have pdf where screen shots are there and also location of the code...
mention in the pdf first two points.
1.1 location of code is in ....
1.2 readme.txt or md is in ....
1.3 screen shots.
pdf attachment should not cause issues..

unconscious stuff , task not mapped to correct iteration.. this was surprise..


English ( SME experts ) is going to come how do you convert that into code..

6 year kid or 100 year kid , most of them cry non stop when you ask for details..


workitem 

acceptance criteria ... should have numbered points.. with details..

java side should be ready .. before you think of web side

clear 5/5 in service function.. funeral has began..it will come definitely
1. service function.. 
2. what is input 
3. what is its output
4. how does output indicate that things succeeded failed ,failed due to what.


you have a choice..
1. you can design html page... thinking ok this is service layer I plan to call
how the look of the page what will change.
what ui components should I show.
what events should i react to.
when will I call service functdion.

1. once you service...  service function with details.
1.1 it means you know the model to use.
1.2 you can have an idea regarding what you need to do in the repo.

be very busy and frustrated..



all i said to start with.
1. ensure your stories, workitems have details with numbered points.. attachements... you design..
2. English is fine. take each sentence and ask what is service function, input, return type and 
return must mention.. failure cases   
3. decide your look of the page..
4. decide your repo part..
may be high probability of getting code done properly..

selftest folder
backend  -- java part
frontend .. html ,css,js
only problem we cannot link thee two, it is ok.. just look independently and see whether
they work..



Being busy is free
being relevant is not.
Culture is correct... no judgements... focus on the project all of us are its slave.
unequal effort is ok..
Whether we are in good mood or bad mood whocares, architecture first and then code.


please remove graphic icons it ind... text.


two things.. self testing.




checklist for you.


1. ensure iteration is correct for the task..
2. in your code folder. readme.md ... some points..
3. in pdf
3.1 location of the code
3.2 location of readme.md
3.3 screen shots.
4. attach pdf to the task.


from project point of view.
everybody in the team first self test yourself.. we know what remedial action to take...
approach..

0. boards reflect reality...( acceptance is clear.. no moral science words in acceptance criteria)
1. service function design.
2. web ui or repo design.
3. complete 2 , you have webui, repo ..
4. test it works or not.

--------------------- end of my rant---------------------------

I am assuming everybody is using
let and const. and never var ( is another name for headache ) anywhere...


what you do in javascript.
1. setup events.
2. do some logic..
2.1 make http request , get response and use the data..
3. based on logic.. update the ui.
3.1 change the part of the html...  
3.2 navigate to a different page ( routing.. )


I hope people realized the importance of Ramesh and suresh during function assignment..



most of times what we are doing is.


1. some important function is given by Ramesh.
2. Ramesh tells hey you have to pass me a function only then I will work.
3. we are suresh, we want to call Ramesh function, we define a function as per Ramesh expectation
and then call Ramesh function passing our function as input..

const freak ={ a:3,b:4}
freak.a=7;


in your entire javascript i guess you would have used only let and const and not var anywhere.

you cannot two variables with the same name in the same scope.




whenever you feel there is a need to assign a function, go for arrow funtions
when we assign a function, it is 100%  we define   a function, but never call the function 

when we define a function and we are going to call it.. arrow function is just not worth it.

There will be lot of event registrations in javascript... use the arrow function for it..



where I will use arrow function..  English answer, whenever I feel there is a need to define and assing
a function I will use arrow function, because I 100% know I am not the caller.



register for events using arrow functions.


let x ={ radius:3 };
x is an object. it does to belong to any class..  welcome to javasript.


but then if we want to create multiple objects with similar properties.


let x = { radius:3 }
let y ={ radius:4 }
let z ={ radius:6} 

javascript gives you a class syntax. you can write a class and then create object.


class concept of javascript is used lot in real life.. why models we use in java
will become classes in javascript.. models are needed to call the service function
or get the return type of service function..


Account.. it was used like input to service functions
and some service functions returned Account.
so Account was a model..
so all these models needs representation in the web tier... web tier calls service functions..


arrow functions important syntax.
class syntax is important from a project point of view..


function f1(x,y,z)
{
console.log
}


f1(3);



style of coding
Destructuring which is very commonly used in javascript.


Destructuring. means you take an object or an array and move its values to individual varibles.


let x= { length:3, breadth:4 }
let q = x.length; //Number
console.log(typeof q);

in this case we destructured an object..
we can destructure an array.
aprt from this, nothing else..


Destructuring..















quick summary
1. keep your bp level normal focus on the project, running commentary is free..
2. javascript
2.1 set up events.. ( function assignment.. arrow functions)
2.2 do some logic... 
2.3 update the ui..
2.2 and 2.3 .. document.getElementbyId... access sections of the page....
it in this place, you will use class, destructuing also..


destructuing is style of coding... nothing great technically but commonly used in javascript
so we will use its usage a lot in react.. 
100% your project in javascript will breathe only objects...


destructuring things.
1. take array or objects and move its individual elements or properties to a separate variables

2.

js 
 ui
 service  -- logic to call the service function of java.. and in this.. you will use models
 model. --write class.


spread operator copy and expand..
again only for two things Arrays and objects.





from object to individual variables... ( destructuring..)


from object to copy of an object and then making changes to it ( spread)

original object called X
 dont touch it..
make a copy of it Y and hten add things to it.
spread operator.


Promise..
It will never happen now It will take some time.. we have to wait. if you are doing something
where you have to wait.. it is called async

async f1()  //why aynch because f1 has to wait
{

	await dosomething(); // why you have to wait because somebody has promised. to do something


}.

because of promise, we are waiting, because we are waiting function asynch.. we will take it slow.

what is important

who Promised.. Ramesh
to whom .. Suresh.. ok great...


who Promised .. Ramesh
to Whom .. Ramesh only very scary..



I want to make a request, some server side ocmponetn will process it and give me response
this will take time.. this is done by using a promise.


Ramesh
tells you have to pass me two functions f1, f2.
I am doing job X when I feel i succeeded in job X, then I will call your f1.
when I feel I failed in the job X, then I will call f2.


Ramesh wrote a function which returns a Promise.. to Suresh.
This promise to to usable by Suresh , suresh has to pass two functions as input to the promise
first functdion 




Suresh
likes Ramesh job X. so he will call Ramesh Promise how.
by defining two functions f3 and f4 , sursh will pass f3 and f4 to Ramesh Promise.



const y =new Promise(x);
this x is a function... so Ramesh can be use arrow functions why.. Ramesh will do define and assign
to whom. to whomever person who Wroe the Promise class. Promise is a inbuilt class.

how many arguments should x take what should x return Ramesh cannot decide, the person
who wrote Promise will tell Ramesh that..

The person who wrote told Ramesh hey you must be pass me a function whose input is another two functions.
and it must return anything..


those who dont understand suffer suffer . welcome to respecting theory.



when we are going to call a function, what the first thing we should do..?
open documentation 
those who dont know theory of function assignment entertainment guaranteed. and full English will come..

tak your time understand promise concept.
and copy paste two three examples so that you dont need to think of syntax.. but then 
ask what ramsh is doing, what suresh is doing. ..



you have a promise.. 

if you have a promise...x.

x.then(callthisfunctionwhenthingssuceed).catch(call this function when things fail)


succes and failure and logic of deliveirng on promise is not on us ramesh job is do that..


ramesh code.

function doingsomething(input)
{

return new Promise((x,y)=>{ 
	taking something to deliver on promise;	
	judging whether success happened or failure
	if success call x function
	if failure call y function.
});




}



1.do you have a promise, Yes..
2. then while callin the function I will use await.
3. in the function where I used await, i will call that function as async








Promise theory is imporant
styles  of coidng ok two ways are there..


then and catch.
async await promise..



line 45..
result an object which is returned
when the resolve function is called.



if you aare dealing with a promise. you have two appraoches..



approach 1
1. promiseobject.then(successfunction).catch(failfunction) //remmber you function should one input
argment that will have the promise sent to you.


approach 2

inside a async function

asynch function f1()
{
	try
	{	
		const datagivenbypromisewhensucceeded = await promisefunction();

	}catch(whenpromisefaileddatagivenbypromise)
	{

	}



}

all functional programming in java. is copied from javascript.. all the class you see in javascriptis copied from java..


quick summary

0. I am promising something to somebody else
1. I am doing something which takes time..( start of promise)
2 . I may succeed or I may fail 
3. person who wants to check on the promise... must use asnch, await, try and catch
or promiseobject.then(successfunction).catch(failedfunction)

axios. in case your sme is a technical person.. ask them what would you prefer to fetching
the server resources, fetch or axios.. both are opinions... if they axios we prefer axios
else fetch

what is moost important thing during rsponse we should first do.

check the response status... if status is 2xx it means it is succss
if yu get 4xx or 5xx entertainment troble
4xx user is in comma state.. user related problems
5xx programmer is in comma state.. programmer related problems.
we should know to hanlde it in the ui.


ramesh has promised suresh.
so ramesh must tell suresh one day.. .whether he succeeded or not.


module concept.
1.i have two js files. a.js and b.js
2. how to use functions written in a.js in b.js.


so what to do.
0. things are non deterministic
1. complete the javascript assingmetns what has been given in  42.
2. try to see did you understands today concept of destructuring, spread , promise, modules.
3. for topic 2, dont bother "thinking syntax"  focus on copy pasting some examples .. but prove
you understood the example and also prove for promises and modules you know ramesh and suresh are there.
4. hard thing... remaining asisngments are completed and understand overall process.
4.1 did you identify what will change in html .. what syntaxes did you use for changing parts in html.
4.2 broad css, on class usage how did the layout appear.
4.3 javascript
4.3.1 event handling.
4.3.2 logic.. part..
4.3.3 how did impact the ui.
5. self test (coming monday dead 17th august 2026 ) Item scenario are you able to code
both java part and html, css and javascript part..



my biggest fear, lack of clarity and people are busy.. 100% disaster..
















