today.
1.focus on spring boot concept and run
spring boot application outside the ide
using maven.( remember 
2. spring boot within ide..
3. project related discussions after 3.30PM.

old mistakes keep getting repeated in any project.
world largest product ... ideas.. in a project we must relate to the requirement


feedback.
1. process.
how are we distributing the work...
2. technical part.
2.1 ui.   -- feedback
2.2 backend
3. busness requirement  -- feedback..





look and style.. Pulse...


website user friendliness.
1. consistency   -- just ensure our is copy of pulse..
2. no scrolling ... .user may not see.
3. do whatever you want number of clicks should not exceed 3.
4. it must work on mobile also...

my paranoid fear is always.. in name of business where we will get disorganized.
here my approach would to have a checklist...






quick summary.

1. maven.. is a build tool.
1.1 opinion on folder structure.
1.2 you can compile code, test code, package code, run code..
1.3 how does maven know about our project.. pom.xml file..
1.4 xml is used to describe data... and black box .. in this case maven knows
what to do whatever we have described, because we have used the vocabulary of maven..


The proof that my project is spring boot project, is libarries I am using
are spring boot related libraries..

what i am expecting today to do.
1. understand how spring boot works and also connect react to spring. how is it done.
for doing this, do you know what details you need. answer you already know.
excel sheet is there for component design.


whether it is spring or spring boot. who cares..
getting rid of I disease is very important to be technically good.


1. do you know architecture that is starting point..
breadboard..
2. in spring or spring boot we should be conscious about
who is creating the object.
2.1  I, We, Mine, Me..
2.2  we are telling Spring hey create the object
we should be conscious about it..( IoC)--Inversion of control.
3. Vehicle License , Passport..  ( Annotations )-- if you forget to use it,
we land up with logical errors.
3.1  License is taken by X because he knows the benefit of the License.
3.2 License is given to X by Y, promising some benefit under a circumstance called "Q"
3.2 X is meeting the circumstance called "Q" and then he realizes the benefit of License.




explain spring boot usage..
1. knowing architecture.
2. do you know how to use annotation.


Spring boot will look in our pom.xml and see what depenancies we have
used and configure them based on information we have given..



anybody who is using the annotation, which is what we are most of times..

1. who has given this annotation, what benefit they are promised and when?
I dont know 1, ok dont use annotation. or Shakespeare ghost ... "It will work
it is inbuilt... system defined "

2. annotation should be used at whatlevel..
2.1 Class
2.2 method
2.3 field level ( variables outside functions inside the class)


2. in springBoot application we use 
@SpringBootApplication annotation... on what on the class level.


if you want to apply annotation called X which is a class level annotation
on three classes A , B andC..
yes you got each of this class, A and B and C apply the annotation..


spring gives you three things.
1. loose coupling. bread board..
2. x+spring = x becomes easier..
3. aop.. did not talk about .. later on



Spring boot = spring made easier.. in spring we had configure lot of things
that has been reduced in spring boot..

quick summary..

1. you must know architecture or else dead in spring.
2. we must be conscious.. who created the object we or spring.
3. how annotation works.. we must know..
3.1 who created it, what benefit the promised and when ...
3.2 for benefit is given.. class, method, variable..


who gave you the annotation, simple look at the package eto which the annotation
belongs..



hope i have told you some story telling on

-1) xml
0) maven
1. spring. ( Inversion of control   -- 
you are asking spring to create the object instead of we creating
the object, dependency injection )
2. spring boot
3. annotations.

I defined a function, I am not going to call somebody is going to call it
under a particular circumstance.. == Event	Registration
it requires intelligence to recognize



server:port/api/rectangle/calculate in post mode of request.. then this function
will get called,, why will this function get called, we have registered
for the event..


<button> when confused stick with basics </button>

welcome to common sense
1. useSTate is not my function, it is somebody else function. so I am calling
it so open documentation, when anybody read it, it shows it returns an array
with two elements.
samething applies to annotations also..
.
I want to work on spring boot project who to start 

1) we know folder structure in maven..
2) we would used maven and got the dependancies put in the project
where in the pom.xml file
3) java fate we need main function start..
4

@SpringBootApplication
Spring boot makes spring easier, give details.. that is what matters..
example if we put a web dependency in your pom.xml spring boot will look
at the web dependency and by using classpath ensure default web contamner is configured
for us... typically this is called as tomcat.. ( web container used for java applciations)



spring boot with database dependancies.. spring boot wil configure my database automatically provided i give database information in properties... in spring
this needed a lot of configuration..

I will start looking at all the classes present in the package for further annotations..
x package
  class is there main function
y.controller .. clases
z.exceptoins.. exception
a.repostiory .. repo
b.model.. models.
c.entity... models which are mapped to tables.
d.security

people who are not conscious about folder structure in their project are bad
people technically..

if we are building a spring application X (Universe
we should follow this convention..

 class with main function
x.mw.controller
x.mw.repo
x.mw.model.
x.andromeda.controller
pu.somefreakglaxy.controller


tell me your package which contains class which has main function
Z
tell me your repo package.. 
abc... repo
IT.. for non IT people means Invite Trouble.


who is creating the object and where is it being wired. or used... ( this means
you have to know architecture.)


REact program during axios call.

1. will call controller function...  only these functions can respond to http
requests.
2. inside controller function we will call service function... 
3. service functions internally can call repo functions if yu talk about database.
4. you return from repo to service, service to controller....
5. controller will return data as response.. ( http status  + data y ou plan to return)
you will see in axios response...



from react service ... you reach spring boot controller( here you would
rgistered for http request events)
you reached controller where we will go next to service... 


architecture ok.. you talk about functions flows..


what is REstControlelr architecturally

1. it is a class which has functions which will react to http based request events..
2. it will autotically take input json and convert that into java objects.
3. it will automatically take output java objects and convert that into json.
4. it will also help you in sending http response status.. codes.


so many things to do, where is checklist..
NO I will use memory. ok courageous decision.. all the best..


architecture.. multiple files.. function will flow in multiples file..
what each file is nothing but a layer.. why layer is created.. whenone layer changes
other layer need not change..

When spring runs, it could have created the objects wired them and application started.
ie http server is also running... and waiting...

waiting for what ...    Events	 to    Occur


in react event occurs.
in another layer i called some function x.
inside function x,  i did axios api calls. for example get call.



we reached spring controller layer... for the event called get.. 
spring read input from http request..
called service function.. because it is wired..
service function called repo function, because it is wired..
repo function returned y to service function, servie function eturned y to
controller function.
controller function took y, decided http response status codes ot be used...
and returned the data via response...


back to react x now...

you can write many controllers, but end point being unique is our job..
if we give a choice ot the computer, computer will thorw back at the choice at us..

each team member will write their own controller class, own service class, own repo
class, own dto...

folder joining the party..


from react to java... oh.. service in react to controller in java.
			axios function call. to a controller function call in java.


hope i am able to sell, ARchitecture is boss, functions and variables still matter.

@RestController.
@Service
these annotations create object and do something extra typically..

@Restcontrolelr creates an object + does lot of http related cooking for yu
including json ... inputs needs to converted json object to java object
and return type shuld converted from java object to json..
@Service will create an object and we are telling hey look this is a service layer..

once upon a time..   Docker.. image.. inteliJ..



today ..all of you

phase 1)
1. prove maven is working in your system... maven needs to download libraries.
settings.xml.. which tell proxy information...

2. you have get your spring boot project working within IntelliJ
and prove it works.

3. install a tool called Bruno.. find out how...
this is not a browser.. but a mechanism thru which you can test your controller
functions by using http requests and see the response...

phase 2) -- folder week5 in old repo and not in your project repo
4. you have to get my rectangle poc working in your system and understand
the react part and java part of it completely. ( important thing)
react
a01notes\summaryimages\generatedsummaries\a19Week6springboot\reactandspringpoc


one component.


spring boot
1. controller.
2. service.
3. models..


complete function flow in the program..


DTO is another name for model may be more better word for Model.
DTO .. Data Transfer Object.

understand the code..
IN react series of function calls. do we know in which order functions were called.
in spring boot. series of function calls do we know the order of function calls.
knowing this is architecture..


Please make sure you close all the story and task for previous weeks. 
We will be checking on the status regularly.

 
pessimistic programmer a resident of heaven
optimistic programmer permanent resident of hell.

we should get rid of this disease, Until I write my own program only then I will know
this is pathetic.. tolerance towards uncertainty...

we called a function by usng uri, using http protocol
and variables we passed was passed in json format..
welcome to api call.
in react.. api call. for api call, backend must have published the api..
that is what we did when we started spring boot server..
spring boot hey I am ready for lilstening to http request events..
when did event occur, in react when you did axios call.

ResponseEntity is a class in spring, think of it like 2 compartment suitcase..
1 compartment you can store http status code.
2. compartment you can store whatever you want..


I hate details enjoy Hell.


in http.. can we tell you make a request. but response I dont like giving..
hey look my server ran into problems I had lot of issues.. so that is reason
I wont give response..  Invalid ... under any circumstance you must get response..



you are in f1, you are throwing an exception where will control go, wherever
f1 is called   important theory....


when you see function definition.. who will call the function

The exception has reached spring boot, what spring boot is doing ,
has this person told me how to handle the exception.. if yes I will use it..

we have three objecs.

1. object input .. dto rectangleinputdto..
2. object output... dto perimeterarea object.
3. one object error... dto to handle erro scenarios.  ( controller to javascript world
all these are couriers..

There object of backend which needs to go from javascript.. so we should be conscious
about the keys used... in json...example length, breadth...
there are objects which come from backedn to javascript.. we should be conscious
becuse we are going to use in frontend.. we cannot invent keys..we can use
the keys given by backend..
similary scenario for error handling..

we need lot of patience first ..I will make api call but not use state. circular stupid

peple who can know architecture and its function implications survive better as a technicalperson even in AI based world..

http..
you can use it for two things..

Bruno why did it come. once upon there is something called postman which is used
to test http based function calls. or api calls. we should not use browser
because browser is used to test http based presentation and not function calls.





process 

1. we write a back end.
2. check it with Bruno ... ideally with unit tests..and integration tests
3. once it is working integrate with react..
we should split our code
minimum
component
apicalling


I am seeing this screen in IntelliJ should I do something else, should I keep looking
at the screen? why?

ensure event is occurding and then see server will respond..


the meaning of architecture is you can test each layer independently...


i have a dobut on database.. I can write a code only at repository layer and check
whther it works.

I have a doubt on service... ..
i have a doubt on controller ...
i have a doubt on security...
when in doubt we can 100% write  small program and check things out..






3.30 to 3.45 
take stock what all things you should in your project now that you an idea
what backend is doing..
go back to excel sheet and see if something is missing..

3.45 PM we will join back..

what to do.txt has been updated with phase 2..

0. check with the excel sheet given in a01notes\summaryimages\maybeproject
whether, components clarity is there.
1. ensure your boards.. are up to date.
2. react CSS is consistent with pulse.
3. ensure routing is completed.
4. have a look at today spring boot and react program how it got integrated one
more time..
5. look at the 01-banking-controller-demo and 02-banking-service-demo
from , make it work in your local system and test  it with
Bruno.
location of the program is in, \a01notes\summaryimages\generatedsummaries\a19Week6springboot

Credit Cards Team,
Kindly block Vikas's calendar for the review sessions and add Jared and Vidya to the meetings.
Schedule: Friday – Williams (5.30 PM - 6.00 PM)
 



























