today adventure..

1. react intercomponent communication ,routing and rest api calls.
2. project rant.. and may be steps..
3. what data points are needed to tell  "I am in the project"
4. tomorrow adventure what everybody should be ready with... 


<form id="xyz" >


</form>

xyz .. submit event it is understood there is  submit under the form...and that submit  button does
not need any id.. give the fact that you referring to it anywhere in javascript..



1. you identify changing parts in html and put an id for it, in case it is dynamic you generate the tags..
2. you have css classes to the do makeup... 
3. javscript... setup up events.. ( conscious )   in the js file any global things is irritation because
user can change it via developer tools console..
3.1 access things in from the html ( it should be under some particular context or event)
3.2 logic building..
3.3 update..



Trust is fastest way to tell I cannot think..




State..hey look there is a changing part in my component, to indicate that i have used state..



const [chaingpart, changingpartfunction] =useState("defaultvalueforchangingpart");

in communication.. English is not our mother tongue it is always great to use this word "for example...


function functioname(freak)
{

}


<add num1="3" callmehere={functinane}/>


are we consciouis.. conscious of what , what is present in our variable..

at time of using the component we can supply some information to that component... that is called as props..
we are using the component where.. parent component..

how parent component can suppy information to child component via props..
welcome to consciousness ..


all people who read variablenames instead of data type they belong to need a chocolate... to eat and chew..


int f1(int a)
{

return 5;
}

we can just 1/5 broadly in the project but we should know. and not tell look at output, output is coming
so be happy . pathetic...


<B x=4 y=5/>



function B({ x, y})
{
	
x is separate variable which contains object.x
y


}

function f1()
{
	e.preventDefault();


}

if parent wants to talk to child..
its propos..

child wants to talk parent, parent should allow a function to be passed via props..
child will call that function.. there by giving nformation to the parent..
in all these adventurs.. state is a must, because that is a changing thing ..

Those who invest emotions in project pathetic..
it is working.. go to the next thing.
it is not working.. ok thing what needs to change why..
that is it. zero emotions on project..


tomorrow ok people can talk whatever they want.. and chew .... 

Project presentation all the people in all teams where talking like business analyssts.. then it 
is not tehnical presentation..

moderate.. how to moderate..

how does copilot solve lack of clarity in the user? this will go if we have habit of getting into details..



It is logging and then debugging.

Routing..


REact tells I know an efficient way of changing your page...so if you want to change thing in the page
come thru me.. how.. thur State.. any change you call a function given by React..


const [freak,setFreak]=useState({});
react tells ok i now know that freak is a variable which will change and it needs to appear on the html.
react tells hey you dont change it.. you ask me to change it.. I will change it in a better way
how, when you want to change freak, call the function setFreak.. which I gave to you.. react did function
assignment..

in JavaScript are we conscious...

React Hooks (Dont trust think and judge thru a poc) -- theory of Event ( P, Q)
1. React is going become an event listener.
2. our component will become event source...
so when things change, we tell react , react will be doing something, why it has registered
for the event




<Button onClick="f1()"> know theory </Button>

is this function assignment or not?
who is calling this function, we or the browser?
browser, does browser care what we have written inside f1..


what is happening inside.. 
we have to chew their brain with some terminologies... they also feel happy we also can feel happy

terminology chewing..


quick summary
1. you know component communication via props..
2. hope you understood objects are the boss and not int..

everytime I talk about state, hey look here is changing part..


how  does a component change..?
1. via state
2. via props.
ghost tells component changes.. ok what changed? component changed.. horrible.. hey look state changed
or props changed..

 Hooks are used in functional components once upon a time react guys thought the way
to write react components is by using javasript classes...  then they changed their opinion
no I will write clsses by using functions.. ok whatever opinion we follow..


until we open other person code no really test of "do we know something" or not


11.02 to 11.17AM we will take a break join back routing and rest api calls..(simple thing for function call)


quick story.
0. do you know what will change, what will not change.
1. how component works.
2. how state and props works.

how event handling is setup
how things appear in teh component, dynamic things.. 


routing
rest api calls.


RESt API.. .

1. it is a standard for defining and calling funtions in a distributed way.
it uses http protocol as a base..so request/response is involved... for variables
it uses json standar.. because when you tell functions how can we talk about funtions
without variables..

what is REST

1. somebody defines a function this happens on system1 located in location P
2. somebody calls the function this happens on system2 located in location Q
=1 and 2 happens then we say .. it is distributed..

all of your current adventures, thre was no two systems forgot about locations..
where is function defined on system 1
where is function called on system 1
no distributed computing..


www.google.com// url group.. website

Ramesh
when we write a function that can be called in distributed fashion by using http and json standads..
we say are publishing the rest api.. or rest functions.. we defined it we did not call it..


Suresh -- React
he will call Ramesh function by using http protocol and URI( Universal Resource Identifier)
given by the function to call the function..

Hey are you calling the function,... conscious person should think and say Yes
are you using http to call the function.. yes.
when you call the function you need to pass inputs needed and get ther esponse.. in the response
output should be... input and ouput will in some standard usually json..
since calling involves request.. mode of request ... get, post, put or delete..
since we are talking about output, response is there.. response means status codes will be there
ok one day it will happen so Promise will be there..
= ghost will tell I made a rest api call. , this is what we will doing in react...

Getting rid of "I " diseases takes time.. becuae kid in college was buried in I...

Ramesh one day...Spring boot

whichever function we call via http, must have been defined in such a way that it can be called via http.
what is this.. ghost word... "Publishign the api... "
api.. what are you dong, calling or defining... he must answer.

I published an api... ( this code is full of Event handling .. only )
1 .you define a function a first, decide its input and output.. (normal language code)
2. put a http cover on that function.. ( write a Rest controller.. function)
2.1 you will tell hey this is uri.. name.. for calling the function
2.2 mode of request..
2.3 input will come via query parameter, path variable, body of the request..
2.4 this is status code and this will be response...
3. you tell ok run this in http server.. why without this. how will you make request and get a response..\


once Ramesh defines a function and puts http cover on top of it.. anybody writing their logic
in any language can call it because of json..


Routing how do you go from one component to another... during some action..
eample in html world is link..

you can carry information as part of routing also..
 
I im component 1, i am going to component 2 due to route.. I can carry some information route information.

query parameter..
go tocmponent2? empid=3;

path variable.
component/3

you can send object in a shared space... 







json is a a string format..  {  }
keys also come in qutoes
values can come in quotes or number, array, object is recognized
undefined and function cannot come in json.













quiuck summary
1. you have some story telling on rest.. ( define a function and ensure it is callable by http.. publishing the rest api) .. i am calling the rest api function... ( calling the function via http.. and enjoying the request and response
you get ) .. all data is typically thru json..., it is distributed...


2. we have component, we want to go from one component to another... screen will change... routing..
while you do routing you can carry information one one layer to another layer..

how do do routing..

1. react opinion, you have to install one more package react router dom.

react routing is two things.

1. first you configure for this string, show this component.

Route Map  -this will not appear on the screen
hell show a component called A
heaven show a component called B
earth show a component called C
sun show a component called D.

you will startusing ..
usingthat links.. this will be seen on the screen.. page..

navlink="hell"> welcome to hell </nv

what kidn of router are you using
Browser Router.. we are using..

If youw ant routing to happen.. what all things are needed in the code.


1. npm library installation.. react router dom.
2. set the kind of router you are using in index.js or somewhere..
3. you set up a router map...  for this string, this is the component to show.
4. in your ui. you will string.. and what stirng to show to the user... 
<A href="wheretogo"> what to show  </A>
<NavLink to="/stringforthatcompoennt">whatever youw ant to show..</NavLink>

how do do rest apis..



useEffect(() => {
    fetchItems();
  }, [freak]);

useEffect(somefunction,[whentocallthatfunction]);
useEffect(someFunction,[]);
call it only once when component is laoded..


UseEffect takes a function ( function asisngment ) and an array as input..
what it does. when you write empty array, it calls the function you passed only one time...
if you put something in the array, whenever that changes, it will keep calling the function


our fate is understand functions calls across multiple files. because that is what architecture is all about
finally...



usual style of writing react component is.. 
one file for component.
if you are calling some server api.. rest api.. you do it separate file..



axios is one of most common libraries to makea rest api it needs axios libary installation by using npm..
npm install axios..

when overloaded with information and confused, stick with basics.. let me give an example.


when you see a function call, what you want to do.. open  documentation..
when you define a function, what you want to do... where it is calling..



person who has to call teh function, must know the name of function or variable which has been assigned with that function.
in rest api..

1. he must server ip
2. port number.
3. ui.


http://localhost:5000/api/items
mode of request, get or post.
input parameters..

Keep your focus on.

1. how your components work.
2. how they interact with other components.
3. how you navigate from one component to another component.
4. what did you put in state, props.  ( hard part...)--conscious..
5. css figure out how to keep it light and effective..
4. push validation in second phase.. dont do it first phase..
first phase.. is your ui looks properly, if everything is given dos the flow components happen..

Archtiecture
X component.js  --state,props, event handling.. from here you call the x api funtions
X api(service).js  .. make rest api call and get the data send the data..


Most of will realize why co-ordination between people is always a miracle..
because we need a well defined process. which I think most teams find it hard to put in..
that explains bp issues.. world war 3... 


REmember there is easy ways to do validation and you should find out and use it.. there are third party
libraries.. if you got access to that use it..

sideeffect means something happens outside your component..
contacting the server and getting data.. is happening outside your component.
starting a timer service is windows feature again outside a component..
these are called side effects..


useffect(givemeafunction,whentocall);
whentocall is an array, if is empty.. call it only once.
if it has a vairalbe filled, then whenever that variables changes, call the function..




promise.. resolve and rject will give you data..
resolve.. you can get response data and use it..

get
post
put
delete
these are http request modes..
these are http request events.. so we can register for them what is what server or person who defines
the rest api does..

person who defines the function tells
hey server, when somebody make s areqeust with get mode.. with this word scrap.. call my function..
<button onclick="f1()"/>
convention is
post event is used for adding.
get event is used for query
put event is used for update
delete event is used for deletion.
ie your mode rquest is get. usually do query on the server.. l..
indempotentn..


12.56..
what data points are needed to tell  "I am in the project"
1. are you part of some repo. 
2. did you do commit and raise a PR... if no you are not in a project.
3. did the code work in your system... no.. you are not in a project.
4. you should show your component working in your system.. and finally in the repo also.
5. boards are updated..

2.00PM join back..



May be... 
1. ensure board is updated.
2. ensure your component works in your local system.
3. if possible do a component check... state, props. event handling. .. how things appear
on the screen
4. one push of your code to your branch and no PR( why PR needs review.. not blind merge)
5. your possible future plan of action..











































