can we summarize, when we summarize everything is not important but we should know.
we cannotbe zero in anything, but in everything 5/5 is also bad..



0. keep your focus and most import keep your bp level norma.. relax..
1. what topic we are covering today and tomorrow.
2. some random 1 person check on theory skills.
3. in terms of topics.   interface( Amazing thing if you like project and if we can think
with a time perspective), Exception handling ( NOt being paranoid, not being careless),
topic where we need to real ( Datastructures, ), as part of it, we will see this "super
interesting thing called function assignment )  -Function as a variable.

Serious one but do people realize it..

1. When i want to solve a problem and multiple steps are there.
do I want to use my "memory"   -- Pathetic noisy and will fail
do I want to have a process with a check list...  ( will succed in most of times)


Variables.. yesterday in assignment variables created non stop entertainment how..


variable
data type
content   == array
operations  == insret, update, delete...



CustomerLogic is not a data type
it is just used to group some functions
customer array is just a variable which is used to store things across functions.

a=b

decision making requires time factor..




multiuser.. scenario.. static things will create entertainment eventually
so we should be careful..






when we do  a well architecture project.
we enjoy the pleasure of changing it because we have taken care of it in architecture.


keep your bp level normal
focus..
we will join back at 11.26 AM and continue the adventure..






super keyword..

1. super keyword is used in the sub class to refer to the super class functions.. or variables.
2. super can be also used for calling the super class constructor inside the subclass constructor.



extends keyword is used to indicate that a class is going to subclass of some other things.

without extends super will not have any meaning.

people who are vague will suck energy from everybody .
get into the habit of detailing things.. that is a good start..

Runtime polymorphism.

1. you must have inheritance or interface scenario
No I dont have it.. ok forget polymorphism, no I will cry, to make the kid stop crying consolation
compile time polymorphism.. pathetic .. indicates overloading.

no I want runtime polymoprhiosm only
1. you must have inheritance or interface scenario

what is it.
1. we are calling a non final function 
2. using a super class reference
3. which function gets called is not known until you tell me which subclass object
we created.



Window w = ?;
w.copy(); //runtime polymorphiism
what copy will get called depends on what is ? ...
behaviour depending on context.. that is called runtime polymorphsm.



Animal m =?
m.eat();  // rutnime polymorphism
m.fear(); //runtime polymorphism.

Shape s =new Triangle();
s.area();  //runtime polymorphism
s.perimeter(); //runtime polymorphism.


Account c =?
c.openAccountProcess();  //RTP
c.minimumBalance();


Animal
Horse.


Animal m =new Horse(); // current Horse is ok other animal is ok for me.. runtime polymorphism can come
Horse s =new HOrse(); // I want a horse only.  no runtime polymorphism.

answer what do you want?
I want a mobile phone
I want a iPhone?


Shape s =new Rectangle(); any shape is ok currently I have a rectangle.--x
Rectangle r =new REctanlge() I need a rectangle only.   --y
















oops != class
spend time on relationships.. then you have inheritance.. or interfaces think of runtime polymoprphism.

super class
class X
{
X(int a) 
X(int a, String b)
f1(int a)
f1(int a, int b)
}
subclass
f1(int b)
{

}
what is encapsulation
keep the data private and allow data access in an organized using functions
that is purpose of class.


variables are private.
functions are public
how do i access these varibles, come via functions.


Dept
data of the dept
people of the dept

if you want data from the dept approach the person it the Dept dont go directly and
start searching for the data.. encpauslaiton.

packages are used to organize your code in java.
for exame you did your asisngment yesterday based on packages only..

package naming convention is

projectname.yourbusinesslogicname.architecure.

sc.investbanking.service

IT industry sERvice === logic. 

we got two packages p1 and p2.  ghost talk..
how to use one inside the other. horrible English forget it..stop


ok you two pacakges p1 and p2.
tell me what is there in p1. I have a class called A in p1. in that class i have a function called f1.
in package p2. i Have a class called B in that i have a function called f2. inside f2 i want to call
f1 of class A present in package p1. great ghost you have come to earth.. congrats. now you canswer.

how come to class B.
in that import p1.A
then call the function f1 inside f2.how

depends whether f1 is static or non static.
it is static A.f1
it is non static A obj =new A() obj.f1();// if this is case A is a data type.

import works on classes which are public... non public classes needs to used in the same package
only .. very rare feature dont bother..



class A
{

here we can private, public, proected, default..

}

anything private inside, outside the class it cannot be acccseed.
anything public, it can be ccessed outside the class irrespective of the package.
dont write anything, it can be accessed outside the class, provided it is same paccakge.
protected... you can access outside the class in the same package, in other packages provided
it is a subclass.
and demonstrate a program on this


somebody tells that you X is a theory.
can you write a small program to validate this theory X or not? we should.
or else super dangerous word.. Trust.. Scinece never believes in it.


Abstraction.
1. give me a feature X , I know what feature X is doing, but I dont care how the feature X is 
implemented.


feature = function


I need sorting in function main present in class A.
B has got sorting in bubble sort
C has got sorting in merge sort.
A does not care for B or C it tells give me sort..
that is called as abstraction.

in java to do abstraction we use interfaces.
in C to do abstraction we use header files.
in every language including which was used by great grandmother of dinosaur during programming
abstraction exists.


HOw do we know our project is a scrap project. there wont be any interfaces used.


Abstract class
Interface.










quick summary

1. hope you have an idea class as a data type
2. runtime polymorphism.. 
3. some vague idea about interface.. good idea about abstraction.

abstraction
X will tell I dont care for Y because I have a Z with me.
3 will tell I dont care for 2, Becuase I have a 1 with me.
Z and ! are interface or.. may be Abstract class we will see.

-------------------------------------------------------------------

Exception handling.

1. ability to deal with a runtime problem that comes when a particular function is running.
2. so focus on function when you tell exception handling.
3. ok I am running a function, some problem has come, judge whether it is a dead scenario
or an injured scenario.
4. dead scenario , feel sorry for 10milliseconds and move on..
5. injured scenario think what solution you can do for the injury and see whether things
become normal.. but remember injured things can die.

whatyou mean dead, scnearios which you cannot recover from.




quick introduction to Datastructures.

try
{
some code is written whether it is your own or you are calling some functions
some exceptions may occur..then control will swtich to the catch blok

}catch()
{	
you try the remedial action... 

}
how did the control shift from the try block to the catch block.
in the try block and exception object was created and then thrown.


in IntelliJ if your project has got any compilation error in any part.
none of our program will run, project should be free of compilation errors.
only then it will run.



int numberOfPatients = Integer.parseInt(scanner.nextLine());
this function when it finds we have entered a string
creates an object of NumberFormatException
and then throw 
NumberFomrmatException e =new NumberFormatException();
throw e;

I am not able to see, every good that is inbuitl function it is doing it.
until that is done there is no way you can reach the catch blok.

until an 
1. exception object is created
2. thrown
we cant tell "exception has occurred"

until exception has occurred you should not talk about catch block.

in java to tell something is an exception. especially user defined ones..


let us I want tell X is an exception the way to do it


you should write a class X extends Exception., you should X a subclass of Exception
only then you can call X as an exception , until you make it as subclass of Exception
if you create an object and throw it or catch it.. both will nto work..

throw
catch 


those who did not comlete yesterday thing.. try that.
113.
after a little bit of theory 15 minutes max..

1.00 to 2.00PM 


language /program/ project itself will throw error   ==English..
only thing 

1 you are calling some inbuilt function or you are doing some invalid at the operation
level of the variable. thrn system will throw the error.


int i =0;
int j =1;

j/i  divide operation on j which is invalid.. ArithmeticException.. what does it mean
it means System has created exception object and then thrown..


















whenever you are using the word

Exception has occured
throw ?
? will be an object of a class that extends Exception.


what you will do when exception occurs
1) catch(?  x)
? will be 100% classname which extends Exception.

2) public void f1() throws ?
? will be 100% classname which extends Exception.


think of two people Ramesh and Suresh.

Ramesh has written a class A, he has written a function f1.
Suresh has written a class B, he has written a function f2.
suresh wants to call Ramesh f1 function inside f2.
now some exception called X occurs in f1 .Ramesh should not write try and catch and handle x
inside his f1, because Suresh may want to handle x and decide what to do. so Ramesh
has to use the word called throws...

Ramesh job
1. Exception occurs.
2. dont handle it, report to Suresh.. how  public void f1() throws X.

Suresh job
inside f2 call f1.. inside f2 put try and catch and handle X and decide what to do.


Ramesh has to decide that hey look I am owner of f1 function , X exception is occurring
in my function only, but I dont know the context in which f1 is being called  so I will
let the caller of f1 decide what to do with X.

who is caller of f1, Suresh so suresh in his f2 function will call f1, and surround
with try and catch and handle X.

Exception occucred in Ramesh function
handled ie caught in Suresh Function.

why is this important.
rule no 1 of problem solving, if you dont know context dont solve it report it.












PatientAdmission class written by Ramesh.  
processAdmission is function of PatientADmission

HospitalApp class written by Suresh
suresh is calling where in his main function.


why STrings are there, human beings are there we like giving name for everything..
Strings are important in programming language because humans see it..

in every programming language string becomes important because we need it..

in every programming strings comes in two flavours.

1. immutable string  == String s="hello" how to change "Hello" to hell simple forget it you cant change it.
String s="hello"
s="Hell"
ok kid be happy we did not change hello to hell rather we created amother string called hell and ensured
s points to it.


2. mutable String StringBuilder or StringBuffer.

String s ="hi"
s=s.toUpperCase();
print s it will small hi only why... stirng is immutable then what did touppercase it created
another string it will return you should it


regular expression operations applies
to int, char or String.

only STring..

DAta type = content + oprations.


Be on track.. dont hurry... you should know priority

1. Fibonacci...
2. Customer.
3. Customer with validations and exception handling.
4. Customer with datastructure  -- should code.. you should refactor..


1. Abstract class
2. Interface.
3. DAtastructures.
4. misc topics..


what is a class   --Product --this can be used by us
what is an interface  --Standard.  -- can be used by us, by using a product whichc adhers
to the standard.

Menu   -- Interface ...contract..
Half cooked Batter   -- Abstract class
ready mae Dosae or Idli..  -- concrete class.. whatever you written so far..



what is hardest part here.. getting rid of "I" disease..


Abstract class 

it is a class.. data type..
what is meaning of abstract it is incomplete or it should not be used directly.
how to use it.

Create a subclass of it and implement half cooked part... and then use it.
how create the object of subclass and use the abstract class functions.


Those who tell abstract class is for abstraction.. ok pathetic..

Abstract class is a class which is half cooked
who will make it complete... subclass. how by implementing abstract methods.
how do you use the functions of the abstract class.
by creating the object of the subclass
subclass objects can access super class functions  + subclass functions..
that is how astract class becomes usable..

all Abstract classes must be super classes.
all abstract class will have atleast one subclass.
no I wont have abstract class becomes useless.


Interface think of a food menu.. not batter not ready made food.
what is differernce between interface and class.

interface is used to design standad.
class is used to design a product.

what do i get with interface , I am telling hey look I dont care who you aare but you
must have this feature..

class I have some features if you want you can improve on that, you have to give some additional
feature.

class will non static variables and functions..
interface need not have..



what will I get from the interface,,nothing. standard
It will force you to do something...    standard works when people agree to it.

kid is crying and tell me simple difference between interface and class.

class will have non static variables.
interface will never have.
if you think why... 
class is a product.. usable... eventually

interface is standard.. standards are never used directly they are used by using products
which claim to adher to the standard. how do you know

class A implemtns the interface..


There are many places where we want to tell hey Look I need this feature who you are does
not matter..

HDFC Bank tells hey google pay, hey phone pe I dont care who you are ,, you must agree to upi payment
mechanism that is it.


UPIpayment mechanism.. interface
GooglePay impelemnts UPIPayment
PHonePay IMplements UIPPayment.

HDFC

UPIPayment x =new GooglePay()


It is very easy to design a product. very hard to design a standard

show me a project without an interface and be 100% sure we have a funeral in the project.
show me a C project without a header file and be 100% sure we have a funeral. in a project.

Abstract class is used to give something and expect something. why 
Abstract class I will give you X, Y but Z you must give beccuase I cannot take a call on Z.

Intefaces tells I wont give you anything you better give X and Y. Contract


abstract class Employee

int empno
string empname.

constructor
setter
getter
abstract void work();

public interface EmployeeDuties  // interface design is hard job.. requires tonnes of intelligence.
	  signContract();
	  int getSalary();




class SE extends Employee work.. he has to define
class Admin extends Employe work he has to define.


it is  never like which is good. question is what you want..

in a project abstract class is also needed
interface also is need.

but pick one.. 100% interface is needed.
why contracts re important between componetns which interact with each other..

230V and 50mhz


main point, do you appreciate importance of a standard..
why standards are important
when things like X , Y and Z are interating one day Z can become P, and Y can become Q ..
so ...we should put interface between X, Y and Z
so that Z changes Y does not chare
Y changes X does not care.
 

If you want an abstract class which implements an interface that is nothing wrong..


I will give you X, Y and I am expecting P, Q, R from you , P,Q,R is being forced
on you because I impelement an interfae called I.

class VC implements I
{
	private int g1;
	ptivate int g2
	setter and getter.
	abstract void P();


}

interface I
	void Q,
	void R

class IAgree extends VC
	must define P, Q, R



	kids think standards are making things complicated..  kids never understand maintenance.
kids are fascinated with "output is coming for now.."
	


Datastructures.
somebody tells I like datastructures dont trust him. give a chocolate and go away.


to serious study datastructures ... start from Maths and then go to CS...

DAtastructures.
1. we have group of things.
2. we have some operations to perform.
3. think which one to pick from library.
4. know the language opinion.


in java we have Collection which is an interface  standard.. one thing in the cell


List can have duplicates
Set cannot have duplicates.
Map will have key and values.. ( Dictioary structure)


SEt and Map are non linear structures... ie they will aid in quickly searching and sorting
if that is done frequently.. occasionally I am doing it is not worth.. we can ue a LIst ..



List is in interface
ArrayList implementation   --growable array usually use this..
LinkedList implementation  -- non contiguous doubly linked list, if you are inserting
in between frequently prefer this

Map is a dictionary operation..
you key and value.
you get value specifying the key.
you can get keys and values both
you can get only keys
you can get only values..



Static and non Static
make sesnse in class.

insdie class something is non static variable and functions..   datatype.
create an object to access the functions, functions internally will access variables
you did that with Customer.


static. class like a grouping mechanism.
to access the variable or function.. classname.functioname or variablename.


Final and non Final
you must have inheritance with you.
final functions cannot be overridden, hence no runtime polymorphism.
non final functions can be overridden these are meant for runtime polymorphism.


Annotations.
kids will cry, adults will know the advantage..
Passport
AdmitCard
Badge
Currency...

X=College
Z=your teacher
Y=you

Admit card or hallticket,passport

there are three people X, Y and Z.
X tells carry this you will get a benefit under a circumstance.
Y likes the benefit promised by X, so Y starts carrying this.
Z will look what Y is carrying and start giving benefits because he is a friend of X.


quick summary

1. hope you have some theory on
1.1 runtime polymorphism.
1.2 interfaces as standards..
1.3 annotations
1.4 some realistic view about datastructures..
2. hope you have an idea about how to do exception handling.
3. some story telling on String operations.


what I expect from you practicaly
0. if you ask you to do something in code like create a class, create an object hope you
will able to do it by looking at syntax.. syntax is a function of time. so "from memory" is a danger.
1. Fibonacci.  
2. customer without any exception handling and validation
3. customer with validation... and exception handling
4. change to from Array to ArrayList..  ( practical thing pending)
if you are smart 90% of changes will happen in Logic and minor changes will happen in main.

tip explore refactor..



whenever we are calling some other person function, decency demands that we open documentation
and see how does that function behave normally and how does th efunction behave in error situationsand then write code.







































Tomorrow Linux commands...
