Today is day to demonstrate 

anybody who tells I have to remember less
but generalize their learning..

whatever assingemnts you you have to take
screen shots and store in your your bootcamp
folder week1 Linux..

check Linux works in yoru system or not..
Linux commands.. some com








Patience first and then intelligence..
lot of syntax... 
1. to figure how to learn syntax..






why are you learning Linux commands..

becaue in todays world cloud is a reality.. in cloud i need Linux commands..
avaialility of resource on demand.. all these things will be automated..


software developer greatest anthem..  they keep telling "It was working"
to avoid all these things we will use next week Docker.. containeraization... related to cloud..
here Linux is the boss. cloud means rented house..how to be light weight.. light weight Linux is the boss
hence we are learning Linux.


Design. if we begin with intent called X. no matter whatever changes we do in design the intent cannot change..


1. have you putty... working.
2. do you know your Linux credential.
3. get connected..


paste right click.






confluence page.
1. Linux pdf
2. assignment programs


Sarayu
Yash 
Nistha


os perspective Operation
1. resource management
2. file management
3. scheduling.
4...5 ..


only way to ensure software is working properly getting more number of people to use it..
Linux wins.. when compared to unix and other operating systems.. 


world biggest war is between products vs standards

companies want us to get addicted to products.
customers want choice, so they tell give me standards
fight goes on depending on mood something will win,


windows... file system.. os feature. windows  NTFS
Linux will have own set of file systems..
Linux will recognize windows file systems..

Linux is supposed to secure when compared to windows because how the initial design began.


Tools are tools.. that means dont become fan of it , once we join he company ask which tools are they using
and learnt to adapt..

Imitate and then Improve.

Solution can come only if we know the context..
context is the boss.



quick summary
0. becoming a fan of anything pathetic.. not a good idea from business point of view..
1. knowing os helps that is not our job today. but think about it 1.5/5
2. we are going to learn lot of commands lets us generalize.
3. Linux has an opinion, windows has an opinion. mac has an opinion how to do things..
4. today wwe are learning Linux opinion on how to do things.. why cloud needs it..
5. Linux by default is multi user... 
6. know folder structure helps where does your software go by default in which folder.. are good things to know in any os.
7. how to update the path are good things to know..


file extensions are not that important for execution.. content of the file is what matters in Linux.

know folder structures

know binary files and text files

know linxu commands.

open documentation when 

concept is not a function of time
syntax is.







what we did got a hold of how to work on Linux using this "opinionated editor 
called vi"


Fans of anything should be hung in the ceiling..

first prove we understood the problem prove prove never trust..
how do you this in Linux.. by using scripts logs..


sh freak.sh junk scrap

inside freak.sh

$1 junk
$2 scrap.





enjoy the world of Opinions
please keep taking page49 to 53.


habit of dealing with multiple subjects..
4th std kid in school is ok.

social studies
language
maths
science..




constraints define real life
complete all assignments till page 56  by 3.30PM today.









1. summarize what we should understood so far
2. you will get time to complete the Linux assingments..
but remember to know what is happening where..
3. boss of design again.. interfaces..



1. cloud.
2. Kubernetes.
3. docker.
4. Linux
5. we are learning all the things we learnt..


welcome to 4th std learn multiple subjects be peaceful.
try to create the noise of "I am focused" pathetic.. most of time it means
they are useless in the project.. rant..


Linux.
script writing..
syntax.. it has got  its own syntax.
we issued some basic os commands llike listing files  seeing text file content. 

can you learn syntax on your own.. that is great skill to have.. because
syntax is always opinionated... depending the language or tool you are using

go thru the md file for the concept a litte bit ...


Functional programming.
1. ability to pass a function as an input argument to another function.
very very common ever since dinosaur great grand mother..
Ramesh  wrote f1
void f1(verycommon)
{


}

very common input and return type is decided by Ramesh
what should be the name of the function Ramesh does not care..



		Suresh wrote f2 and f3 and called f1 of Ramesh by passing
		f2 as input argument.
void f2()
{

}

void f3()
{
   f1(f2);  //functional programming.  input of f1 is another function called f2
}

f1(f2()); //different thing.. call f2 what f2 returns pass it to f1 this is not
functional programming.



why we do it. before that people will "Illness  --I disease.." will not understand functional
programming.]






concept
give an example
talk abouit syntax
talk about best practices
logic building..

mix all 5 and enjoy unlimited misery. or engish jargon... speaking skills.



//Ramesh would have written function
p(ohyes) // suresh will be calling it, Ramesh tells which
ever function you are passing,  need int as input and return type
of function should be booelan
{

}

//suresh has to write functions.. becuae he wants to call Ramesh function
destiny q(fate) //callilng will be done by Ramesh
{

}


generalize()//anybody not an issue
{
   p(q);   //to call p i need some other function in this q. because Ramesh
//p function takes another function as input..


}


to call a function you must be insie some other function.. True.
















anthing a = function definition 

anytime you see lamda or function definition assigned to a variable.. usually
it is understood that it is suresh who is doing his fate job..

Ramesh will be doing the complex job


Suresh will be using the Ramesh complex job to ensure it suits suresh.
Ramesh is telling suresh.

hey suresh 
I can do sorting, 
I can do searching
I can do filtering
I can start a Thread...
I can start a Socket..

But while I do sorting you must tell how to compare things.
While I do searching you should tell how to match a thing.  ie  ==
While I do filtering you should tell how to match a thing  ie   ==
while i start a thread you must teach me what you want to do in the thread

Ramesh  tells I can sort, you teach how to cmpare
Suresh 
has got Cars, he will teach Ramesh to compare two cars.
Mahesh
has got Employees he will teach Ramesh to compare two employees.


Ramesh is telling I dont care whether it is employees or cars all i need is
comparision on that I will sort.

welcome to world of interfaces in functional programming in java.




explain in simple way how function programming looks in java.


you should see 3 functions.

Ramesh
1

Suresh
2
1 function of suresh to call function of Ramesh
2 function of suresh is fate because Ramesh has told suresh hey must give me 
one fnction as input argument.









back to Linux assingments.



x
y can be written as lambda..
z


z
{


}




















