project. because that is our boss and that is paying
the salary.


English... will come.. requireemnts..
we have to convert that into files based on architecture.
files dont execute, functions do...
inside there must be functions... obviously
when we talk functions variables will come input return type..
project specific data types.. classes and objects will come.
people who dont like getting into details deserve suffering
and will get suffering.. --- designing low level stuff.
until we have clarify in terms of function design and variable design. no coding can happen..

foreach tells.
I can run a function for each element in the array
that function should not return anything to me.
and its input I can give two things to you.
element of the array and index.

all the assingments which we did yesterday in javacript
are all kids assingments why.. content of the array
was string or number, in real life content of the array
will be object 100%

navigate
function calling to function definition
function definition to function calling.
variable scope and data type..

people who dont read documentation of function which
are commonly used in the code, will enjoy unlimited
entertainment with their prediction skills.

find function on the array, calls another function
which we define and pass to it.
this another function which we pass will get called
for each element of the array until it returns true
or end of the array is reached..

the function we are passing to find.
1. should return Boolean
2. its input argument is individual array element, index.

how many arguments does function(X) we pass find(Y) function take.

Y(x);
1. x is a function
2. what it should return Boolean. why "Y" tells so.
3. how many input argumetns does x get , Y is person
who is going to call X.
last 40 minutes rant is.. when you call a function
open documentation and read it.. we did not do this
in java.. we used prepareStatement, executeUpdate.
rs.next, setInt(1,23);


input argument to Map is a function...
what does function take as input (element,index, array)

welcome to consciousness..
people should talk in terms function called, function defined
, function assigned, this is variable data type, this is scope
and then what logic it is doing..









memory loss high time you upgrade your ram..

we are talking about changing sections of the html page
and also event handling..





java  ( Back end)
1. service function
2. repo function
3. hopefully we show "rigour" in it... get into lot of details
example...
what is input
what does it return
how do i know failed or success 
failed because of user
failed because of system.. db not working..


Front end.
0. why are you writing this page.. -- to call some business logic
1. you know "what will change, what will not change"
2. have your html and css ready.. wherever things are changing
html.. ensure id is there..
in css , classes are there.( when to apply, when not to apply
ie control)
3. event handling in javascript.. (super important thing)


				


in javascript we got entire representation of objects
in memory. the entire html page is accessible in form of
objects. we got various objects like document, window, navigator.
our favoruite will be document because within that ...
all our html content will be there..

thru the document methods you can reach different parts 
of the page..


to write any html page..

I am already in Hell, how to improve the intensivity of Hell
be disorganized during chaos..



1. you know business logic why are you writing this page.
2. you know what will change, what will not change.
3. you got id ready in html, classes ready in css.
4. you have completed html part and css part.. (this is needed
so that we can work on javascript peacefully...)
5. we setup events.. ( function assingments will come)
6. inside our functions... of event handling.
6.1 pick things from html..
6.2 make request, get response...
6.3 update the UI 
6.3.1 change parts of the page.
6.3.2 leave the page and go to some other page, with some data.

freak point but important.
I will write my own program and only then I will understand ok...
but also open other person program and try to understand
that is proof of we knowing anything..







for form ui components id only.. .you plan to refer to the ui
componetns in your javascript..

name .. when request is submitted, server side things will
refer to the ui components via name only and not id.

quick summary
1. official documentation reading is important.
2. by opening other person code, changes of checking
our relevance would be high..
3. X is web page.. there is a generic way to understand
things..

technically there is  thing called document. there is a thing
called window.. these are not opinions these are technical
things in the browser.

we want to access section of the web page, then
we have to depend on the document..

those who byheart syntax will suffer now.

welcome to "opinons" and "syntax"
This syntax which I am showing is 1996 to 2000 syntax
there are better ways to do the same syntax..

event registration concept is important
everytime we do this.. it is understood function assignment
only be there.
our function will get called when event occurs
that theory is important.

Syntax is not.. because there many opinions on it...

till yesterday whatever we wrote was kids program
why no event handling. no event handling what are we doing
in a web page... nothing...

Event registration = two things you have to mention.
1. on what you want event to be detected.
2. which event, which is your call back function..(function assignment)


kids who don't generalize suffer suffer suffer.

always during function assignment you observe
we are doing two things.
1. define a function
2. assign it.
3. name of the function does not matter.. for the person
who is going to call our function.. hence use arrow or
anonymous functions..
no I will give  name, ok kid be happy that name is useless.

welcome to consciousness
1. which event.. on what..
2. have you registered for the event..
3. when the event occurs only then that function will get called.
4. typically scenario for even handling.
define a function, assign a function and tell for which
event this function should be called by the system..


0. on what event you want to detect on
1. registered for the event.
2. event has occurred.
3. which function will get called.

any javascript code..

1. event handling functions
2. logic functions
3. ui functions.






 const somenumber = document.getElementById('somenumber').value;
when we write this. we should know what id points
is it a textox, it is a button or is it a checkbox
this is again are we conscious...
why we should know this each object let us textbox
button or checkbox comes with its own properties..
not knowing this and assuming will create lot of unnecessary
entertainment..


hardest thing... knowing you return type of function
and input argument you need to pass in business logic
context..
 
success ok.
failure why.. becuase eof user..
failure why.. independent of user.

when you are writing logic functions.. slow down
and think how will y ou communicate success and all categoriesof failure... that is reason it is hard..

iability to get into details means the person will be ghost.
is team able to interpret the logic function properly
those who dont another way to have a funeral in the project.

what we did today is real html page program. yesterday
was welcome to javascript

generalize.
1. set up some events 
2. access parts of html page.
3. do some logic.
4. update the page..
5. change the style... via classes.


0. the html file we discussed is present in poc folder, maybe.html
this is html file we discussed in the class.
1. page 42 of javascript.pdf
look at generatedsummaries\a16javascript\sampleprograms
2. a05.html, js
3. a06.html, js
understand it and prove you can make it work in your system.
4. keep the html and css ready for page 56 to 61 of javascript class pdf and
5. the hands on javascript.pdf and keep the html and css ready for the same also.

architecture to be followed in js... 
1. events, anything related to the ui of html.. ui
2. logic separate



feedback.

1. in the project if this is done without a  good intent we have a funeral.
2. java assingment customerid should autogenerated.. you should have explored
a serial on customerid.. or sequence.
3. css assingment.. standrd website is not complete or image was not shown.
4. acceptance criteria ,we need to have something which is objective...

Item
itemno
price
qty
category

1. show me all items based on cateogry
2. update item only price and qty given an itemno.




quality of the project..
in project did you identify story properly
is acceptance criteria written propely.
how seriously do we unit testing..


if you feel you have completed the things.
move the story to resolved state and then resolved to closed state
we will review.. this should happen in your project also
Intent first langauge next..













