Today adventure..  4th sep 2026
1. standup
2. 9.00 to 10.00 plenary
3. performance ..testing 
4. quick summary and what is expected on Monday..
5. continue working on project
6. Monday there is assessment...  + review of all your projects individually projects should work in your system..



Relax .. and stay focused on the project. 
Don't invest emotions on the project.
A)working. go to the next thing..
B)not working... think what to change... 

Approach for any demo to stakeholders ..  every team member should be able to show..
1. here is my api. ( watch out for the names... keep it decent... )  ( JSON+ http status --ResponseEntity )
2. look at swagger. 
3. look at the json and http status
4. look at this component, here the json created above is used .
5. come the controller, show the service and repo .. dto and entity if need be.
6. show the h2 table structure...
7. tasks of ado boards description must be filled and  story must have description and acceptance criteria.
8. watch out for your PR...s
9. before demonstrating, keep everything running and then go, 
   please don't start server or react in front of the stake holder.


Feedbacks are best thing that can happen to any project we can check relevance..
be clear about priorities...

making things work in real life.. takes a lot of effort.



12.00PM i will have theory complete.. a quick summary ..


we close things by Tuesday and keep testing and practice presentation on the remaining days..
overall summary. Review is a great thing to have and we should try to prioritize how to have it frequently..















1. performance testing..
2. quick summary about what we should have known in the last 7 weeks.
3. quick summary about testing.. on Monday you have a test adventure.. ( horrible .. fate we have to do it..)
4. Contraints, Tradeoffs and Contradictions.. I have to force you to understand some projectxs an come...
I am not looking at syntax byhearting..



X was very slow and somebody thought horrible thing X is very slow let me make Y, Y is fast and X making companies
went out of business. because Y came  --> Y...  Git


how well was the requirements captured..
no 1 reason for project failure is poor requirements gathering..

IO.. expand IO.. Input and Output

what is important thing about IO..  it is slowest thing in computer ...



if a resource is expensive to create, we do tradeoff by creating some resources before hand and use it..
to create X is expensive at runtime.. expensive it takes time. so what we do we precreate x .. 10 or 20 depending
on requirement when you actually need X we dont need to creates X.. rather we pick X from teh pool.
X= Connectin in jdbc.


welcome to real contraditions.
assumptions are bad. without assumptions nothing will work..


you must have been seen two category of functions in all the code, in X.

<button onclick="f1()">  know  </button>

based on who is calling it
1. system is calling the functdion ( watch out.. .ensure this is fast.. measure it.. this is major reason
why things will become slow)

2. we are calling the funtion



ok nice English hardware... but in our code, still again things will come down to function..

To make things useful in real life will never happen by accident .. there is a long way to go..

Never trust we understood the cause of the problem and try to collect on data why the problem is happening..

No question of monitoring anything, until we have the decency of doing "logging"Logging and Debugging..

what happens in real life.. is.. we commit the code, immediately unit testing, integration testing, all the remaining testing
gets triggered.... and it passes only then it goes to deployment automatically...

Contingous Integration
continuous Deployment..


in the it industry we are flooded with opinions .. so relax and until the need is there ignore it..

For all the testing.. processs... Imitite and Improving..


quick summary...

1. hope all you know the importance of knowing folder structure..
2. hope people are convinced that we need to be good functions and variables..
3. hope people realize once upon a time we did jdbc with architecture.. architecture to code and never vice versa.
4. hope people remember the git, docker .. cloud ... this adventure... ( tools adventure)
5. database .. hope you understand tables greatness..( physical and logical independence of data..), primary key,
foreign key..
6. web...  for presentation ( react) , web for logic. ( distributed computing, controller, api ... )
7. in both , you must know request, you must know response. who is processing the request..( the controller function )
8. react.. ( how did component appear..  what is changing, what is event handling.. , routing, api call )
9. the silent thing which we did a shoddy job of completing because that is what was expected. in the course
and it is killing us till today ...  css)
10. http headers how many are you focusing.. that is important thing to focus..
12. spring boot..  what is controller what is service, what is dto, what is entity, what is repository. what is security. what is validation.

last three things.
1. what is controller.

View.. react page.. Photoframe
Model.. data that comes into state, props. route ..  (Photo)
controller.. who provides Model to View..  ( who provides Photo to PhotoFrame )
returning ResponseEntity from controller functions.. ( DTO)... is nothing but Model.. since functions which return model
are called controllers. our class which has controller functions is called as RestController..


Controller functions return View + Model..  ( show me hello.html and show me emplist in hello.html) ... Controller functions
are not called as RestControllers ..  WebControllers 



2. what is service.. 
3. what is expected on Monday... ( I will ask anybody to write one line of code, but you should explain code by line numbers)




Service.. is actual Logic..
Service should be a core java code... I can service from my local system not in a distributed way in spring boot
to check my logic out..

Service like  chocolate..
Controller like a chocolate Cover

if you did not write service,  you will call repo functions from controller. if we do it is  bad idea.. we are telling
to check whether my database part works I need http.. controller functions need http...

Controller  -- Distributed world begins
Service -- corejava 
DTO  --corejava
Entity  --corejava
Repo. --corejava


I have  my Constraints Tradeoff C...






































