Today adventure.


people who make things complicated are oxygen thieves in project.. they will make everybody life miserable

we shoul have hatredness towards complicated ...

react theory.
1. event.
2. state and props.
3. component works..
How are things being shown.

const i=3// this is not shown... this is just a dynamic thing hopefully
<div> {i}  </div> .. this line is being shown...


Ability to design a small poc when we get struck in doubts either in concept or in syntax. is a great skill to have.

0. keep the bp level normal. 
1. Keep the focus on the project, Culture is everything...
Today coverage
2. how to deal with database  via JPA ( ORM) , security what does it mean.
3. project folder structure
4. ensure concepts are clear.. 
4.1 do you know architecture.
4.2 who is creating the object
4.3 wiring .. what does it mean.
4.4 React calls controller functions... do you know input, output... response status..
4.6 can you complete a code in 1 hour... nice test.. let us see.. all syntax given ( 2.00 to 3.00PM hopefully..)
input is box.. which contains two numbers and symbol
return type is another box. which contains result and message.


so FAR IN YOU SPRING BOOT PROJECT, APART FROM making the "my" code work. none of us written any new code.. in your project.



concept is not  function of time
syntax is..

being systematic is a great thing to have if possible to extent possible..
I am working on spring boot or react.. but no patience to see my pom.xml file or package.json. pathetic..



react should talk to spring .. who will speak like this.. ghost..
on earth.. only within function can you call other function

React
event occurs.
some function gets called. X ( event handling function)
in that function. some other function gets called  Y ( service function )
and with Y, we are using axios call.-- axios do. it makes http request... and it reaches your spring boot controller function.



ensure your project has security enabled but dont use any security yet... wait patiently complete your back end
and then we will start adding security in a separate phase.. no I will mix everything ok enjoy non stop entertainment..

what is meaning of security.
1. who are you, what you can access.
2. I am enabling in the security in the project and telling allow all requests to get in  and allow cors.

1.1 allow all my controller functions to be called.
1.2 it can be called from any system..




spring boot is running on x.
react is running on y
when requests from y come to x, it will get blocked... by default.
so X has to tell allow requests from y to be come... this is what cors..



people who dont project folder structure comma state people..

api calls can be made... that means .. I am calling the function via http in a secure way by passing json
as input and getting response also as json...


name of the function is important. if you are calling it...
if somebody is calling it. who cares for the name especially the system..



when you write controller two things happened.
1. you joined the party of distributed computing..
2. we are calling a function of spring boot controller from  function of react written in service.js, which is turn called
from the some component.


kids until I do practicals I wont trust.. bad thing from a science perspective.

I got pom.xml file configured for security what will spring boot by default block all the uri, you cant reach any
controller function....


package naming conventions are very important.. everybody should spent time understanding it..


quick summary
1. ensure your project has security libraries and your code is telling, i will anybody to access any of my
controller funtions..

what should be project folder structure..




quick summary
1. hope you have an idea regarding folder strutures
2. hope some idea regarding this freak secrutiy setup..
2.1 security is only for controller functions..
3. spring architecture..
3.1 do you know architecture of your project.. ( spring will not tell this we should know )
3.2 do we know which object spring created, which object we created..
3.3 using the objet call the functions..

MVC  -- Model View controller
photo  -- model
photoframe  -- view
screw.. back pad..  -- controller

controller is somthing that links Model with a view.
Restconroller is doig this only but with small modification, it is giving only model and no view..




Mobile
Battery
Sim

do we put sim inside Mobile or Mobile inside sim...  this is architecture..
do we put service inside controller or controller inside service..





Nursery kids problem, crying non stop... oh no my functions are coming in multiple files what I should do nothing understand it..

Architecture demands it..








Mobile obect spring created.
Sim object spring created
why .. I asked spring hey you create it. how by using som eanotation..


sprng is going crete a mobile object, it has a sim object because we told hey spring create it
when mobile object is created, we have created a battery object.


when we see error messages read it irrespective of we understand or dont understand..




Where are you going to usethe Mobile object.
I will use it controller.


Inversion of control..
I created the object, I created the object me created the object. relax..


sometimes I create the object, sometimes Spring creates the object how do i know.. architecture...




@Bean.
we are telling spring hey I will crate the object you must use it.

@compoennt .. @RestController. @configuration @repository..
hey spring you create the object and obviously you use it.


quick summary
1. do we know architecture.. no .. ok unlimited entertainment guaranteed.



we did not create object of sim and give to spring.
neither we asked spring to create object of sim
but we are telling spring hey create mobile object that needs a sim..

be conscious in java also... which object spring has got, which do you hve..





quick summary
1. hope you understand how spring works.. ( 
invesion of control   --spring creating objects instead of us creating objects
and 
dependency injection - spring put mobile object inside yoiur controller and put sim object inside mobile )  
it is thru this we fill the architecture in spring appliations..)
2. hope you have an idea of security..
2.1 put lbirary in pom.xml file
2.2 allow every body to access everything.. ( we will change this later on, after discussions)
dont bother about security at controller level as of now..
3. database ...part..

no jdbc...
no postgres. goodbye postgres.. sc ahs decided all thigns in golden versions will be deleted... postgres is residing
here hence .. good by postgres. postgres is dead means PgAdmin also should be dead
so what we will do. answer is very simple we will this databse called h2.. h2 is light wegith database..
some integration entertinament expected will resolve by tomorrow. today dont bother..

your focus on the project.
1. react ( css part, routing , clariy in terms of controller function )

first controller function you write for the project must already have security configured.. although not enforced..


Database part..
you write almost zero code for doing insert, update, delete...
ok then how will it know. welcome to jpa (ORM) ...

ORm is a category.. superset, you can do it in java, python, js,c++ , c# everywhere..
JPA is java way of doing ORM.. ( java was the original boss from everywhere copied..)

1. come to your pom.xml
ensure database depdancies are put..
2. application.properties..
telling which databae , wht is userid, what is password, what is driver.. same like jdbc

sql will work
h2 is database.
postgres is database
both are different databases...


what are we doing in ORM.
1.we take a class and map to a  table... ( Entity class)
2. we create an interface in spring boot. telling hey spring boot, this is my entity class.
3. spring boot will create a class that implements the interface and give me standard functions to
do insert, update, delete. without we writing any line of code..

JPa needs a primary key ...
primary keys needs to autogenerated it is generally a sane way to avoid entertainment..
\


in jdbc 10 lines of code, in jpa 1 line of code.






how will my jpa things work.

1. look at pom.xml and look at application.properties.
2. create classes in entity package why, we are maping this to table.. , I will not keep entity package, I will scrap package
ok fine it will work.. 
3. ensure classes are mapped to tables.
4. write an interface extending JPARepository<EntityClassname,primarykeydatatype>
5. start using jpa functions.. your database programming is done.. dont worry about sql command....
6. where patience is needed if you are talkin about two tables show patience to review primary key, foreign key..


1. show patience and review your controller function design... patiently slow slow slow...
2. service and jpa travel fast.. it is ok.. no accidents will happen.



overview on..
1. security
2. how spring works..
3. hope you understand database thing no a big deal but till some theory to understand...
2.01PM



































