docker environment will not come back again..

concept is not a function of time
syntax is a function of time...




what we will cover today.


1. database part.
2. assessment at 2.00PM
3. feedback session at 3.45
4. some code to make it work after 4.00
5. tomorrow review schedule...



purpose of md file was to avoid syntax misery..

Opinion..
postgres one opinion on database, can you generalize your learning..

concepts that are important..

Before you X does  bad things, what should X do? tell good things..
they will I will give you features.... and then they will make it super slow..




1. board should reflect database task.
2. installed the database.. (? ) .. how go to confluence postgres installation.
3. prove you have installed the database.

database server.. machine on which database is running.
port on which the service is running.
you should know the database name which you are using.
you should know how to authenticate... userid, and password
open pgadmin..  you should be able to see database and schema... you should be able to databse
sub components...

database = table + index + view + trigger +.......









1. why use database over  file.?

E F codd rules he told some 12 rules.. in that most interesting thingfor us


1. concept he told there should be physical and logical independence of data..


I have a class employee
empno, empname.
i create an object of it and write to a file in binary format.
we can retrive it what is problem
one day employee will have empno, empnmame and email...
once the structure of employee changes, old data cannot be retrieved
from the file... but in RDBMS


we have a unit called table. structure is empno and empname.
alter the structure add email old data is not lost..


RDBMS.... 




relational database management systems.. you will get tiny ones..
sqllite.. you will get even more tiny ones which can run our credit card or debit ard...

in projects we dont create tables first.
we think of all the queries we have to perform... and then design our tables.

kids world, create tables first.
adults world, think of queries and then start designing yoru tables..

tell me the rhyming word with "rules" "fools"
noramlziation and denormalization...

how many tables you need.. think think think... there are some rules
sometimes we violate it also ok.. every design comes with tradeoffs..



quick summary
1. why use rdbms.. physical and logica indendence of data.
2. in a project think of queries and then come to tables.
3. how many tables.. normalization... ok but think how much
you want to do it.
4. syntax is there.. sql.. ( sql is a standard to interact with RDBMS
so as long as we follow standard sql it will work with all databases)
but freak point all database companies dont want to us work on rdbms
they want to us work on "their rdbms " so deviate from the standard
and tell us hey use this... in the process we get addicted to their
"RDBMS" which is a bad idea for a technical person..


first normal form
all the columns ...represent some information... 
and there can be lot of duplication due to the way how the table
is designed..

2nd normal form
identify primary key and ensure all columns of the table
depend on the primary key..
primary key unique way to identify that row..

3rd normal form.
you will remove transitive depedancies.. that means

you ensrue table has got a particular purpose
you can add information independently.
loss of information will not be there..

can you justify how many tables you have in the project why...
broad theme is every table needs to have a primary key
and other columns in the table shoul be dependant on the primary key
in case they are not move it to some other table.


1. why are we using rdbms.. ( physical and logical independence of data)
2.  plan your queries and then come tables.. and not i will design tables and then think of queries (funeral)
3. how many tables are you able to justify ...

1. database server ip address, portno
2. database  -- 10 databases can run on server which database are you connecting
to.
3. table  -- place where things are stored
4. primary key  unique key which is used to identify row...
5. unique key  -- unique key..
6. foreign key   -- some columns whose contents should be based on primary
key of some other table..
7. check constraint.  -- enforcing some logic on column example it should 
be positive it should be between 10 and 100..

Entities.. is another name for a class which is related to  a table..

table
relation
database level


class categorization
Entity
are all same logically at different levels..


most databses indexes are automatically created on primary key.
when non primary key is thre if is searched frequently ensure you creaste an index
but do know ... if columning index creation will result in a mess.
index looks good for columns whose informatin does not change frequently.

sql IS A STANDARD... NO COMPANY OWNS IT AND EVERY DATABASE VENDOR
MUST SUPPORT IT.

in database how to use Dates.. how to use blobs... ie mechanism to store
files, json, xml... all this things we will come to later on..
projects may need it.. most of times.. but today is not the time to discuss.

Your whole course is a shallow course with lot of breadth..

when it comes to any database....

1. find out company way to connecting to the database on a database server
using some credentials..
2. learn console way of connecting also because it will help you in the
cloud world
3. ui based way of connecting to database.. pgAdmin.. tool.


"OpinionS" all science people will not byheart this on need basis see.


quick story
1. database theory...
2. with respect to any base, know the connecting information..
database server, database name, ip address, portnumber...


we have dept table with deptid and deptname here deptid is primary key
emp table with empno which is primary key, deptid which is foreign key 
and empname

DDL commands ... create table, lter table.. these will not be undone
by using TCL... rollback and commit

I dropped a table.. how to get it back I cant do rollback....
I inserted a row, I want to undo it. ok use rollback..

How do I learn X?
my own thing in X .. 30%
trying to interpret other person things is 70%


practically do the following.
1. try look at the class session pdf and start doing the assignemnts..
2. look at hands on do the assingments ..
3. syntax... look into generatedsummaries/a14databsae/syntaxcerelac
4. for practice look at 
a01database.txt to ao4database.txt

day by day syntaxes are becoming .. more and more.. and we cannot affor to remember.. it.

Syntax ocean in HTML, CSS... who do you keep bp level normal... try to understand
the concept , syntax will come with time..


syntax ensure you know what the syntax is doing..
what are we doing today..

1. take other person code and make it work , undertand and make changes to it ( welcome to real life)
be loyal to the project, then you will realize lot of things we are learning is ok.. but may not be
really relevant to the project..



variable
scope
datatype ( content + operations)


when you are using a query you will get one row or multiple rows you should know...

guaranteed way of just getting one row is do a query and use where condition using primary key.



because of normalization i got multiple tables
now i got to query multiple tables..  joins will kick in... or nested queries will kick in..



X  select dept.depno  from dept join employee on dept.deptno = employee.deptno


Y   select dept.depno  from dept 


ability to get into details is important, some parts of the assingmnt have large gaps hence
the md files to rescue..

it is very important to autogenerate primary keys than ask user to enter it..
how by using a database concept called sequences..

database = tables + indexes + views( read only filters on tables) + sequences + triggers..( events 
on the database) + ...


insert into tablename(c1,c2) values (1,'A'); //disaster waiting.. why.. tomorrow in a project gets added
you have this scenario of yesterday it was working today it failed..


3.27 ...3.43 PM


feedback...

4.00PM .. i will look each persons system where tehy are in rdbms adventure
one piece of java code. try to make it work and understand how it works..











