Today adventure.

1. jdbc.
2. working on architecture with respect to java.... ensure database
code is written properly ( there will be multiple files... be 5/5 in that)

3. ensure you revisit theory on functional programming and then copy
paste some 5 examples indicating ..
1. lambda and see interface... implications there.
2. method references.
3. stream, process and terminal operations..
relate it to the theory . ( JavaScript next week will create
non stop entertainment without this background.. )

5. board a little bit...

culture is very important

what code you wrote ok.. nice start, but real thing can you make changes
in other person code.. that is thing that matters in real life.

unequal effort is the norm in any systems..


Calendar to you know you schedule..

I want to collect more data on team3 and team 4... on git..
because I hurried due to time constraints..

git pull
git push
git merge.

entire all 4 teams how are you in java when you write code in multiple files.


board.
1. in story.. acceptance.. criteria.1.
	1. hands on thing should be completed
	2. classroom material uses cases should be comleted.
	3. trainer should review all the assingments..
	4. i should know how the assignments work.
2. in your subtasks.
	1. confluence link.. hands on and classroom th


Culture  intent first, language next..




to understand jdbc..


1. do we know some database things.. which most of us already know.. ok..
2. do you know interfaces, which I doubt?
3. do you know how to use other person code.. library usage.. ( doubt we
did not do it)
4. if you know architecture.. incorporating changes is very easy...
number of things you will change will be low..


all projects will already be screaming hey this look these are changes
I will undergo.. but the kid will crying and focusing only on today..
as a result architecture is sacrificed and then change becomes nightmare ..

why this priority.
project that comes after 4 week should succeed.
why it can fail..
1. process is bad.. acceptance criteria... 
2. i don't know java and JavaScript i know English..
3. I want to create a mess for everybody with my git skills.


what does it mean for you.
1. technically..
1.1 java(3/5)   -- functions that go in multiple files can you navigate..
1.2 git (2/5)  -- pull, push, merge
1.3 sql (1/5)  -- database, table, constraints, some basic sql.
1.4 docker and Linux ( 0.5/5) why, docker images, docker ps -a , dockerFile.

board.. let the state be correct first.
whatever you are doing or completed let it be active.
what you have not started let it new..
done will come if acceptance criteria is met.

become the 4th std school kid again..
be ok with multiple subjects.. don't tell I am focused I can work only one thing.
all this is scrap.. 

1. current subject.  x
2. java.
3. git.
4. board.
5. react js

 new
active
resolved.  you cmpletd the assignment , trainer did not give feedback
done






kids excitement..

jdbc expand it.. Java Database Management Connection.

next question
what is jdbc.?
a mechanism to talk to the database from your java program.

java = X
X mechanism to talk with database.
it is very old thing.. nothing new about it... so we should learn generalize
it..


I dont know database concepts, but I want to work on jdbc. ok
unlimited entertainment will come...

many a times in a project you land up at this scenario
we are working X , X needs Y, we dont know Y...
challenge is learning Y to solve X and not do phd on Y and forget X.

HOpe you will do the ritual..
hello world java project, what does it mean
1. java compiler is working ( javac
2. java runtime is working.. ( jvm  == java ..)
version is fixed..

to work on jdbc..
we have jdk installed in our system..

once you start with real life forget I, welcome we.

jdk is there..   oracle or redhat..
database is provided by some other company ..  Postgres..
java guys designed the standard for jdbc... interfaces..
database vendors have to implement the interaaces.. they have
to agree contract told by java guys...


when you have an interface in java. designed by company X  java guys oracle..
you need an implementation class. designed by company Y  --database vendors
postgres, oracle, sap...
do you agree.

remember this theory
X and y are interacting
when Y changes X should not change then put a interface between X and Y

X .. interface .... Y
let Y change to Z, Z change P, P change to Q.. X will peaceful
because interface is there..


interfaces are part of you jdk.
classes which implement the jdbc are not part of your jdk they
are provided by database vendors..(companies which make the database)

jvm needs CLASSPATH to know the location of classes.

TAKE THE LIBRARY GIVEN DATABASE VENDOR AND INCLUDE IT IN YOUR PROJECT
CLASSPATH..
WHY only then classes given by database vendor can be used in your code..


we need one extra library not present in jdk ... 
libraries in java typically come in form of jar files..
to work on jdbc we need to include postgres.jar file..
how to include in the project.. module settings. .

IntelliJ Opinion on how to ensure jar file is avialble to the JVM
on the classpath is module settings.. add jar  and point to the jar file
location.  should you care for this.. no.. in projects we use build tools
like Maven or Graddle to do this... this is true ever since dinosaurs great
grand mother...

project success = process * technology * tools * culture


when we get an error message first thing to do , read it irrespective
of whether we understand or dont understand..

1.confluence page download the postgres.sql jar and keep it in a folder in
week3 called javalib, add to the modulesettings.. and check did you add it
or not.
2. copy paste into src.
3. 
private static final String URL = "jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/postgres";
    private static final String USER = "postgres";
    private static final String PASSWORD = "1234";
change this line accordingly...
4. show patince check one more time did you do this.
5. run the main function and see what output you are getting.

those who completd it go thru the md file present in
a01notes/summaryimages/generatedsummaries/a14jdbc/JDBC-Guide.md







how are you writing the code matters..


1. function for creating the table..
2. function for insert, updating,s electing..


try ()  , try with resources...


try ( some resource, in case you get an exception ensue resource is released)

9 out of 10, table creation will nto be done insie the jav code..
it will done thru sql file execution or script execution..

dml command check out for exceptions.. exceptions will come
if constraints get violated..
or syntax is wrong. syntax is wrong take a stick and hit ourselves..


for insert, update and delte, we use te executeUpdate given by preparedstatement

this int is useful during update and delete and not during insert..
because during insert , insert commands fails due to only one
reason...   constraint viaolation
constraint violation means exception.. exception means you reach
catch block..


update or delete command when where condition is not met.
you get logical problems ie int will be zero..
looking at the int is important..
executeUpdate function.. when you are using look out for the int it returns
especially during update and delete..


executeQuery it is a grid.. ( database terminology is Cursor)
java terminology is ResultSet..

find out does it have rows , if yes go and picks it columsn..


whenever you are doing selelct
1. see whether rows exist.
2. pick up each column.
3. creates an object..
4. put that into a list
5. return..

project based world.

kids world.
1. see rows exist
2. pick up column
3. print it..



change it to some other class which is relevant to your assignment.


you take the existing assignment.
create a new package customerpoc.
copy the .java files here..
modify employee to customer..
including name of the class.
change the login the class which contains main.

kids will cry non stop... kids like writing new code..
not changing exisdting code..


Objective is not just get outputs..
idea what architecture is going to relevant..

knowing that architecture. in java. two major blockers..

1. writing according to architecture ( 4/5)
2. knowing functional programming ( 1/5)

PostgresJdbcPoc, this is just a poc program on database totally
useless in the project..

architecture based
what to do now.

1. trying to understand poc package.. and trying to implement
customer impleemnet

2. just for syntax practice.. take employee program , in a new package
modify that to deal with customer only one condition don't create
tables inside the java code, create it directly using pgAdmin.
jdbc syntax practice.. zoom out.. we are not going to use jdbc in the project
but I will ask jdbc in evaluation.. next week.

why do jdbc without architecture...



driver

1 how you to intearact with the database.

1. via the os
2. directly to the database without talking to os 
2 pure driver.( this is what dinosaur great grandmother
is using we are also using the same thing
1 and other hybrid approaches... non pure driver. ( get 1 mark in
the exam)


we must know architecture this is minimum to survive in the project.

we have a code called X in this we are doing insert,update
delete.. so inside X we need connection, but uusaly the connection
will be provided from outside X. connection creation is takes
time so we use  a technical word pool of connections
connection pool.

we are having a EmpPostGresREpoisotyr implemetns EmpRepository

database we dont create it inside this... connection
comes from outside.. DatabaseConfig..

allyour jdbc assingments must stick with the architecture
where is architecture asisngment..

inside IntelliJ project src com package.-- with database..
understand java  --without databse.

understand the architecture..

1. a01notes/summaryimages/generatedsummaries/a00understandjava
here you will see folder called com.
com package has complete employee code with architecture
and with only List and Map as repositories no database...
architecture_flow_guide.md, this file tells how the employee thing
is working the com working... how much of code you need
to write zero onthis..

Customer_Architecture_Tutorial.md has zero code.
all the code has to be implemented by you.

in both these places intent is to understand architecture properly
this is architecture your two jdbc assingmetns have to stick to
one in the classromm pdf and other hands on pdf.

then...
a02jaaworkspace\corejavaproject\src
there is a com package with employee inside.
this uses database...
one package more called config, which will have databaseconfig calss
which has the databse information and this used in the EmployeePostGres
repo.. class.



all your jdbc assingments two assingmetns are there.
1. on classroom pdf
2. one on hands on pdf
must stick to the architecture.






