welcome to system thinking.. zoom out..

For any business getting a paying customer and being profitable over long periods of time is challenging and interesting..


new born kids favourite words... "Innovative, creative, challenging"... are pathetic words if we dont give lot of details ..

while you using copilot..
pulse website... styling I would expect to confirm to this website and dont show any creativity on this.. please.
 copilot to do some home work on requiremetns itself.. how your project can adapt to changes..
show customers how the feature you added, adds business value..


Today adventure.

REal challenge in any project is figuring out this miracle character called  "Moderation"

Intent first language next.. to make things useful in real life, it will not happen by accident..

I feel people who are vague are oxygen thieves..


Relax...

Project success = process * technology * tools * culture..

scrum master.
sprint planning meeting..
1. organize the team and work you need to complete..  and update the boards.
2. you done yesterday, today and blockers..come back to us(academic lead... trainer.. ) 
3. sprint review update the boards .. ( close it, update he boards... )
4. sprint retrospective...


Aryan.. may be missing today...

today schedule.
till 1.00PM session
2.00PM assessement.
4.00 to 5.00PM some random team project presentation to academy people..
we will do some project evaluation.. quickly..



Send a sprint Retrospective  to academic lead, Niranjana and your fellow team members today itelf...

1. no paragraphs only numbered points.
1.1 )what went well
1.2 what could improve.
1.3 what is your sprint plan.
1.4 what were your learnings.


0. concentrate.. on spring boot and remember you have three subjects.
1. XML, Maven spring boot 
2. focus on the project process.
2.1 are stories and tasks specific.
2.2 react working.
   2.2.1 css style working...
   2.2.2 component.. state, props, event handling are you clear... ?
   2.2.3 routing..
3. git PR and has your code been merged with our branch... 
4. Review process.. how did you do it, and document it..
5. Documentation.. are you documenting your journey...

lack of clarity cannot be solved by people becoming busy..


process point of view.
1. this is story ok, this is tasked i was working on, this is tasked i am working on, blockers.. (may reduce vagueness in talk)
2. acceptance criteria and description in usercase ( big sinners ), task should be having a description.. ( task specific technical activity
can be mentioned if possible)
3. practiced doing raised a pr where the "our branch" has changed and you are able to pull the our branches changes to your branch
in the local system.

Zoom out, projects , companies, individuals all of them get buried because of bad zoom outs and not because of bad zoom ins..

Technical things..
1. conscious about you know your folder structure, where your files go ... and why
2. hope you know where react component planning basics..including event handling
tip for you look at the excel sheet..
3. this week we are building api, back end.. using spring boot. we must know how spring boot works..

By thursday. we should know.

0. if react component clarify is poor.. nothing will help we will be in a funeral surely..
1. how to write a back end.
2. how to  connect react to the back end.
3. if possible add security to it also..


All these terminologies you are aware.

1. css class.
2. component.
2.1. event handling.
2.2 state and props.
2.3 routing.
2.4 api call.
3. service.
4. repository
5. model.
 


what is common to all the 6 weeks..
1. we are writing code in multiple files.
2. function calls are happening across multiple files..
why that is how architecture is implemented..


Todays technical story...

1. xml  1/5
2. maven 1/5
3. spring boot ( 3/5)

I am building back end... spring boot using maven as a build system..
Spring is a great framework to learn.. why it changed everything in IT industry .. atleast in terms how software design should be done..
 






XML first

what is purpose of XMl 

1. to describe information using tags..
2. XML is a meta language.. 
from this you can derive other langauges if you want.. what do you mean by this..


all language.
1. vocabulary
2. grammar. order of using the tags... in xml based world grammar comes in form of something called schema( recent 26 years old ) or dtd..(very old thing)

purpose of xml
1. to describe information
2. what is use of it. unlinmited use... describing things have got unlimited usage because that is what information processing means..





Maven
Spring..





best part of it.
1. what is vocabulary you decide.
2. what is grammar you decide..
I will try to make it work for you.. validate it for you...

<X><Y> hello </Y> </X>
X and Y are vocabulary tags or words.
under X should Y come or under Y should X come ie grammar...


in a system we have to know multiple things not necessarily at 5/5 but being 0/5 is a sin and it will bite us surely..
XML is an "amazing technology" why.. everybody has to know how to use it.. everybody who..


1. I am clerk in office
2. I am ceo in office.
3. i business analyst
4 i am programmer
5. i am tester.

USB
Some technology is generic...
-----------------------------------------------------------------

hope you will do the rituals... create a folder week 6 under bootcamp
copy the pdfs and have it...

react assingments have gone for earth quake given the project enthusiasm.. what to do , let me think..


all 24 of you must ask

1. this is my react part.
2. this is my java part
we are in trouble.. we must 1 and 2 in the project we are working on.. re work your priorities in case you feel it is not there..

standard project talk to address this. ( opinion and rant.. dont trust you can do better go ahead.. )  -- Moderation..
1. here is my story, here are my tasks..  ( I respect process)
2. this is task i was doing, business wise, this is what it implies.. ( I respect business)
3. here is my code... which is responsible for doing this. ( I am not a English professor i can do technical things)
4. this is my repo location where all code is commited   ( I am in a project)
5. q &A
 

maven..
1. is a build tool... npm... copy paste of maven... 


rule of copy pasting.
after copy pasting, change the name and tell, find out better English words to use and tell it is "my" original things.. 1947 old stuff.\

PNP transitor is great so is NPN
Japan copied US.. in terms of industries.
korea copied Japan
china copied korea


copy pasting nothing wrong as long as make things useful
Original... nursery kids eat chocolate and be happy...


what maven did and what spring did was show people how build tools can be made, and how applaition architectures can be designed...
then every thing in every language,,   python, java, javascript, .net, C++ ... everything changed. because of spring and maven..
so is great technology we dont need to become fan of anything, but we can learn a lot in design if we are "conscious"

The proof that something is working for a developer is unit tests and integration tests pass.
unit test case and integration test also act like a documentation for my code..




1. rant on xml is over..
2. quick story on maven...


why npm ok.. it came after maven.. maven is an older cousin suitable for langauges which likes jvm..
kotlin, groovy... are langauges which jvm likes.

what you should know about maven..

1. it is a build tool.
2. what does it mean.
2.1 it has an opinion on the folder structure and you must know it.... 
2.2 you can download libraries.. dependancies...
2.3 you can compile code, package code, test code, run code..
3. it by default uses a file  called pom.xml file to know about project.



moral of teh story.. relax and show patience to understand folder structure in any project first before having enthusiasm to code..

golden rule of communication, give an example. can you give...



packaging means zipping things into a folder structure which language understands..
packaging in java means... 


why we should know these things.. integration becomes relatively easier.. meaning of it we will see..




group id is superset.   solarsystem
artificact id is subset. earth
packaging mechanism    jar, war  ( will have one folder struxture, war will have another folder structure) these are standards
which we should learn when we are having nee to do so, we will happy with jar as of now..


create-reaat-app

in maven we have pom.xml file.
in pom.xml file the first thing you will see yoru project description...

groupid
articfiatid
version
packaging..


kids who are infected with "Program Mindset" and Not project mindset.. will feel this is "complicated".. they like Fibonacci Armstrong numberleet code



when you include a library in maven, can can you tell which this library should be availbel for you.

only for testing and runtime. ok.. 
no during compilation, during testing, during time..

we have a story on maven..
you must build some theory on maven how atleast reading the md file if not your whole slides..


theory 
1. maven.. pom.xml file.
2. in pom.xml we will describe our project characteristics.
3. properties.. which versions we are planning to use
4. dependancies... to tell which libraries are we are using.

if you call yourself a programmer you will be always be followed by a ghost called Y which a bag with it , which contains X.
what is name of Y  -- Functions
what is name of X  --Variables

variables ..

data type  -- content  and operations
scope 
primitives and non primtivies from assignment operation point of view..


Functions standard three adventures
1. function definition
2. function calling
3. function assignment.


we should value collobration.. Ramesh Suresh.. that story is important..


spring, spring boot.

what is spring boot = spring framework made easy 
concepts of spring. which are useful in spring boot..


Spring framework why sprng guys once upon a time use this word...

what does spring do for us.


1. loose coupling.  == kids will think they are indepndnet. no... X and Y are loosely coupled means.. when Y changes, X need not change and vice versa.
( dependency injection... )
2. x+ spring = x becomes easier.
x=jdbc 
x=web
x=messaging systems
jdbc becomes easier.
why.. welcome to the world of template pattern design.


In jdbc we wrote 10 lines of code, if we use spring with jdbc, our lines of code will be surely less than 10 and better quality 100%

to your database part ie repository part, you almost don tneed to write any lines or for some complex things you may write 1 or 2 lines
and your entire repository is taken care of why... becuae we are going to use it with spring..

AI based world people who zoom out probability of surviving will be higher.. zoom in guys will be buried... buried means dead people..

in repo world we are not going to use jdbc, we are goin to use ORM... why that makes my job even more simpler..
provided I know databse concepts..  table, foreignkey, primary key and we are conscious.. great our job is done.

3. aspect oriented programming.


The secret song which project will always keep singing is "I will change" developer is praying no you shoud not change.  horrible developer..
his prayer is never answered. how will this come.. only if we think in the project "what will change, what will not change" ie process.



1. spring loose coupling.
2. spring x+spring, x can be made easier. .whatever X... x means web, x means jdbc , x means messaging, x means security...
3. AOP ( relax we will see it later on )


no matter whatever is my mood who cares I cannot violate architecture..
architecture is there to aid maintenance...


as of now summary
1. xml to describe information, feed to black box, it can give you some miracle things..because you described.
2. maven .. standardized folder structure, dependancies.. compile, test , package.. project build tool in java.
3. spring framework ( bread board, making things easy... (template design pattern), aop)
4. there is a word we use in spring called IoC  ( Inversion Of Control)
X is controlling Y..   Y controls X...
what does in spring 
4.1 instead of we creating objet.
4.2 we will ask spring to create objects.

In spring we shoud be conscious who created the object ( two things ) either we or spring framework.
why did we create object.. tight coupling.
why did we ask spring to create the object .. loose coupling.

My project should be 100% tightly coupled .. pathetic.
My project should be 100% loosely coupled .. pathetic.


when you create an object ... function gets called  --> Constructor..


Wiring in spring..


what we will do in spring typically.
1. we have to crate our classes..
2. we have to decide how the architecture is..
3. then ask spring hey create the object of this and use it with this class.


create an object of repoisotry, create an object of service.
put the repository object inside the service class.


why did we put repository object in servie
and not service object in repository.
because service funtions will call repository functions.
Robert frost ghost... because architecture demanded it..

architecture tells service function will call repoisotry function..

talk anything and finally come back to functions and variables..


during spring framework only problem people have is "unconsciousness" in terms of either their architecture or who has created the object..
why.. because they will not know what code they have written..


quick summary about spring.
1. think of bread board.
2. bread board does not like any components, whatever you put and you connect it will do. architecture you control.
3. what does it mean in terms of code, we create classes and then tell spring hey you create these object of this classes.
which class for which we did not tell spring hey create the object, it is understood we will create those objects.
4 after you create the object. what you do..you call non static functions..  ( simple answer)


having information who cares.. real thing what you did with the information can you apply.
overload of information.. knowing theory collapses this..


quick revision. p   c.. but let me do it. (ritual)


1. your approach of creating react application... 
createreactapp
does this project have package.json
index.html


2. if you want to pas sinformation from one compo to another.
props


3. all react components must return one tag..
function f1()
{

return <div>hi</div>  --this is what will appear int he page.. you wrote a component because something must appear in the page.

}
render a component..
1. returning something..
2. when props or state changes.. again will be rendered.


4. when you write a react component using function, obviously there is no concept called constructors

5. Event handling

<button onclick=f1()  >
<button onclick=f1 />
<button onclick={f1}/>


6. const [freak,setFreak]=useState(0);
react opinion hey if there is chaing part, you dont change, it ask me I will change it in a beter way..
ie reason entire story is there..


import React from 'react';

function Greeting() {
  const isNice = true; // Change to false to display "horrible"

  return (
    <div>
      <h1>{isNice ? 'HI' : 'horrible'}</h1>
    </div>
  );
}


Event object..
refers to element on which event is occurring
event object is passed during every event hanlding
in case of form you can use e.preventDefault.


REST API call
is it a function call
function variables needs to be passed and returnedwhat will format..
JSON format.. standard for representing variables..


when you are using rest call, librry we are use axios..

axios .. it uses javascript Promise... ( asynchronous) -- it will take time result will not come immediately
success and failure..
success in http.. 2xx
failure of user   4xx
failure because of system .. 5xx


get, post, put, delete.. http request methods. ieok.. but today or tomorrow you will see these are events in http request..
we are event liseteners.. 

convention..
get method .. querying.
put method.. updating
post method... creating
delete method ... removing..

const customerid=23;
axios.get(http://www.abc.com/customer?customerno=")  -- Path     Variable  /, query parameter..?
axios.post


dipslay a list in react.
which function of javsript
 map

package.json
how do you install it.
npm install



import React from 'react';

function SimpleList() {
  const items = ['function', 'variable'];

  return (
    <ul>
      {items.map((item, index) => (
        <li key={index}>{item}</li>
      ))}
    </ul>
  );
}



REact routing some commonly 


Route  -- mapping stirng to a component
LInk   -- used in page to tell go this component..
Swtich... 


react component is changing dynamic information.
1. state is changing
2. props is changing
3. during route you can pass some information.
4. you are making an api call and you are getting information.. fed to a state. usually.

take stock of your project issues..


boards..
show the code working little bit of business logic.
technically
git..


install maven and spring boot Bruno( http request making mechanism to test my apis...)
































































































