todays topic.

0. whattodo.txt is already updated..
1. we will start with testing..
2. quick summary about last week..
3. test..
4. what you should know.. step by step... clarity..
5. project review.
6. continue your project coding..

To make thing useful in real life , it will not happeby accident..



Testing...
1. it is important part of proving that things are working in real life..



for example is a great thing to use, because none of mother tongue is English..
vagueness will come down.

Imitate first and then IMprove..


for your project you can demonstrate.
1. hey look for some modules we did unit testing and integration testing.
2. we did reviews on the project at various stages, at design stage, at coding stage..

stupidity requires team effort..

style of coding should be such that when a program fails we automatically have data why it 
failed.. that is what logging will do for us..

logging and DEbuggng.


Does developer value writing a test case before the code... that itself is a cultural issue..

due to make changes we made, did existing thing stop working or is still working
we cannot have hope here we need to prove it..

without testing.. there is no way.. we can make things relevant in real life..

Test documents acts like documentation for our project..





what is best way to prove your software is relevant?
get large number people to use it..

real thing that helps in life is "Moderation"
ways of dealing with CTC... Constraints, tradeoffs, contradictions..


If I want to fight with a customer I would prefer to do it on day 1.. full fledged
than after 3 monthsss....



sometimes people read a book , so that they dont want to start the "actual thing"
delay things in name of "preparation"

Unit testing.

-1) is culture there of writing unit testing..
0. fully automated..
1. it should be fast.. it should wait for anything.
2. we tell this is input i give, this is output i expect.
3. run the code and see got output , meets expected output.
4. document this..


Integration test.
developer must know it..

Today we can become bankrupt just by using the cloud...
so how use cloud optimally is also a skil... everybody in team should learn .00001/5


is your react web site user friendly...
you dont think so... definition of user friendly../

0. device independence (  planning issue)
1. consistency
2. no scrolling
3. number of clicks to do anything 3 or less than 3..



how do you know function is complex or simple?
number of conditions used in the function...
FAn in, fan out.. 



if( i >3)

number of paths in your function to go from line 1 to line last in number of conditons +1


Cyclomaticc  Complexity
recursive functions are comlex.
multiple function calls.

welcome to the world today..

1. who cares what information i Have, real question how am I applying that information?


in all test cases..
we will try to have what we expect, what we got we assert.
assert is such a old thing computer science 1970's stuff still today useful.


I dont document things as expected in the company pathetic person as a team member


11.16AM and join back


Hell or Heaven does not matter, repeatability does matter..



quick summary..
0. as long as noise level in brain in low we can do this "easily"
1. currently your keep focus on completing the back end..
2. we have to do unit testing and integration testing and everybody in the team
should participate in it...  everybody must have written some unit testing for some particular
scenario if not fully... ( we are aware of unit testing)
3. how react interacted with spring ( everybody must know)
4. how spring is going from controller ( dto)... service ... repo (entities) .. flow 
everybody must know.
5. how security is applied on controller functions..
6. how does code look in react while calling secure functions.. (very simple..)
7. are you raising PR.
8. are your boards on track.
9. is there a document where you are logging your experiences..
in terms of reading...


rant Peter drucker books of managing oneself
and effective executive are great books always , in the world of AI, it has become even more
great..

quick summary.
application.properties

name of application
portno.
database url..
security username..


@SpringBootApplciation 
1. configures the spring boot application 
2.looks at packaes...
3. configuration classes  @Bean
@Beam we are telling Spring hey I will create the object you must use it for wiring.


Security...
when will security be applied after reaching controller function or before reaching
controller function..
before reaching controller function. how..SecurityFilterChain by using this..

who are you User details service,

 what you can access   SEcurityFilterChain..


@RestController.
what is format does input and response of controller functions take?
JSOn .. are we writing any logic in our code to change json to java or java to json..
no... it is already taken care by whom.. @RestController.

when will you use rollback or commit with your sql.
dml
insert
update
delete.
in JPA how do you transactions.. @Transactional.


http://freak.com/k


if I want to read this in my controller function.. 23..


f1(@RequestParam int i;) x


f1(@Pathvarible int i);  y  ==path variable to read parameters..


@Repository annotation we are using.. this typically indicates
this layer is responsible for inserting, updating... 
actual inserting updating is done by using standardizdd methods..

@repository.. insert, update...


which repository ... functon should I use so that a row is inserted in the table.

findAll.. all the rows.
save .. inserting or updating..

I want spring to create an object of Service... class.
I want it to write the object in  



@RestController
A
{

@Autowired
private B obj;



}

@Service
B
{


}

spring boot has controller object and service object, which annotation is used to tell
sprng boot hey put the Service object inside controller.

to create an object we use the word @Service. @REpository.. @config..
to write the object ie put the object inside the other class @Autowired..

@Autowired.. will not create object. whatever object spring has got it will use it.
@Servce, @Repository will create object but not wire it.. 

spring knowing architecture is everything. wht is knoing architecture.
1. which objects spring will create.
2. which object to put under what..

spring creating object is called INversion of control.
spring able to put one object under some other class.  Dependancy injection.

sequence... is used to autogenerate values for primary key.
in your project, primary key values should not be entered by the user.. until
strong logic exists why...

we can write some custom queries in jpa 
why you want to write custom queries.. you must have a reason..
@query , you use it the repository interface..


pom.xml , why was settings.xml file used..
so that from where the dependencies can be downloaded. canb e specified... authemtication

get  -- querying
post  -- inserting, creating
put  --updating
delete --removing.
these are conventions..
event called patch. in http.. used for partial updates. but hardly used in any project..

spring boot security by default a username is created called user.


security
1. authentication  .. who are you...   usermanager
2. authorization.  .. resources.. do you have access securitychainfiler.

for you controller funtions , this should be accessible by x user only..

@RestController
class A
{
  @Autowired
  private B obj;

}


@Primary ( auto qualifiers)
@Service
class B
{

}

@Configuration
class Config
{	
	@Bean // we are telling spring hey I will create the object you use it
	public B f1()
	{
		return new B();
	}


}

when you create two objects of same class and you are telling hey use one of the object in class A
spring will get confused obviously.... so we should avoid this.. ideally but no I want to use
this like this only because during testing I want use @Bean object , during development
@Servie B object.. these kidn of variations..

passowrds in plain text is a great idea..




12.22..


1. look at the notes.. and summary...
after the assessment is over.. feedback
2. show patience and understand jpa.. and understand the architecture..
component.. service.. fetch ... controller function in spring.. service fucntin in spring..
repo function .. spring boot.

as controller input and return type... dto
once you come repo layer , input and output.. Entities..


3.




















