today topic

1. functional programming
2. Networking and Linux monitoring
3. practicals what all is pending due on Monday ( Big list of practicals that we need to check)..


Functional programming in java it means we need an interface.
why in java.


1. Function input can be only two things
1. primitive type.
2. object type belonging to class or interface.


f1(int x)  {   } all of you know f1 input is an int

f1(Q x)  {  } x is of type Q
what can be Q
Q can be a class
Q can be an interface.
if you tell functional programming Q is typically an interface.

long back interface == standard.. only way to use a standard is by using a product
which implements the standard..

Q obj =new ABC();
what does it mean

ABC is a class which is implementing the interface called Q.
that means inside ABC whatever is function defined by Q will be implemented.


when confused stick with basics..
what is basic, who wrwote the function who is calling it.


main nothing to ask.. fate.. jvm will call it.
main function written by suresh...
he wants to call sort function written by Ramesh.
ok..sort is a non static function. so we need to create an object and call it.
sort input is a comparingthing ...who decided this, Ramesh because is owner of the sort.
Comapring things is an interface written by Ramesh thru which he will force suresh
to write a function whose input and return type should match...
suresh can never write any function whose input is int or int because Ramesh told
it must be string and string only..
how is it done in syntax.. in java it is interface usage.
interface means contract or standard means "force" "agree"

we have to pass a function as an input argument to tell fnctional programming
but here we are passing a object as input argument welcome to language nuances
in java you do functional programming by passing an object whose class implements
an interface and that interface has only one function in it.


ComparingThings y =(p,q)->false;
meaning of this line, I have a defined a function in a class which implements Comparing
things , and that function will return 3. and its input remains two things only
why Ramesh told Hey guy I need two things in my input and return must be an int

in all cases.. what is true.. to do functional programming in java.

1. theory.. you have to pass a function as input... that is correct.
2. way to do in java is thru an interface, why interface.. interfae is  contract.
Ramesh told suresh hey agree to my contract... if you dont I will not do the thing
for you.
3. suresh told ok Ramesh i agree to your contract, how.. wrote  a class ABC which
implements that interface.
then created an object of it.
4. suresh called Ramesh function sort by using that object of the contract and then
Ramesh function will work.


syntax. for suresh
1. instead of creating a class that implements the interface.
2. defines the function
3. creates the object.
you can mix all 1 to 3 by using lamda expression.

I hate 1 to 3 is not an option. i will use smaller syntax is an option in java.


in java.

1. Ramesh
write an important function
writes an interface.


2. Suresh
1. write a class that implements the interface and defines the function and creates the object.
or creates a lamda .. both are same thigns only .. nothing different.
2. calls Ramesh function by suppying 1. I hate 1, you cant call Ramesh function.



freak(x);
100% x is assignment..

Lambda .. to whom does it apply
Ramesh or Suresh
only to Suresh. suresh can tell i will write 10 lilnes no I will write 1 line who cares
Ramesh tells all I need is a function how you give, that is yoru headache.

Lambda is suresh headache and not Ramesh.. becuae it style of programming.
welcome to java syntax in functional programming.


ComparingThings interface designed by Ramesh to force suresh to give him while callingsort.
equivalent Comparing things we have lot of things in java, which I will try to
explain now and then we will look some more code samples.

a style of coding where insead of 

1. creting a class implementing an interface.
2. defining a function
3. creating an object.
we can club all 1 to 3 in a single syntax.
Functionalinterface.. that interface can be represented with a lambda syntax.

Ramesh has an important function
Ramesh tells anybody who wants his important function, I will keep a gun at your head
you must agree.. interface
Suresh or anybody who wants to call Ramesh function
creates  a class that impleemtns the interface.. they are telling Ramesh hey look gun is ok for me.
defiens the function... agreeing to the fun.
create an object.
call ramsh function by passing this object.
entire syntax of creating an object of a class that implments the interface
and defines the function == shortcut syntax == lambda.


accounts.forEach(System.out::println);

Here observe we are passing print function as input forEach this is passing
Method references to function. this also is a style of functional programming.

what is Lamda.. ( more of interface usage simplication)
passing method references. passing functoinname as input arguments .. 
these are two styles in which you do functional programming in java.



Functional programming in java
1) lamda only for suresh..
typically it means an interface is there..
you have a short cut way to create a object whose class impleemnts the interface
and defines the method and you pass that object as input to the Ramesh function.

2) method references
storing the method in a variable.. this is not equivalent to calllign the method.
you can pass this method reference as input to some other function..


Streams are used to process a datastructure.
typically the logic


start traversing  --streaming.
process it
accumulate the results   -- terminal operation
advantage is it will be lazy operation , only when need comes the function will run
else it is delayed..

whenever you look at stream

1. on what the stream is based on ( you are iterating thru what)
2. what intermediate operations are we doing ( filter, mapping, sorting)
3. where are we collecting the results ( termainal operations)


summary of functional programming.

1. Ramesh and suresh.
2. Ramesh can do two things, I write an interface.. (gun) , use a method reference.
3. suresh 
3.1 wants to call Ramesh function
3.2 use lamda if Ramesh is using interface.
3.3 use method reference .. directly.. if Ramesh for method reference.
4. usage scenarios for functional programing in java.
4.1 event hanlding.
4.2 thread scenarios
4.3 datastructure processing...
4.3.1 streaming.. processing, terminal operation.
stream from a source pick something and start traversing.. read only...
processing filter, sort, distinct, aggregate...
terminal operation ok collect the results now.
5. entire topic of 4 will use functional programming.




Function definition 
Function calling
Function assignment ( will come in functional programming, but kid will keep crying.. kid is uns)


kids standard problem i believe in assignment only if I see = , pathetic kid keep crying..
input being passed to function and returning from function is also assignment.



what is theory.. programmer has got only one job be 5/5 in functions and variables.
what is theory.. programmer has got only one job be 5/5 in functions and variables.
what is theory.. programmer has got only one job be 5/5 in functions and variables.
what is theory.. programmer has got only one job be 5/5 in functions and variables.
what is theory.. programmer has got only one job be 5/5 in functions and variables.
what is theory.. programmer has got only one job be 5/5 in functions and variables.
what is theory.. programmer has got only one job be 5/5 in functions and variables.
what is theory.. programmer has got only one job be 5/5 in functions and variables.
what is theory.. programmer has got only one job be 5/5 in functions and variables.
what is theory.. programmer has got only one job be 5/5 in functions and variables.




customers.sort(Comparator.comparing(Customer::getEmail));

sort function what are we doing
1. calling (fantastic that is great)
2. assigning
3. defining

comparing function 
1. calling (fantastic that is great)
2. assigning
3. defining

Customer::getEmail)  //functional programming via method references.

assigning.


f1(f2(f3));
f1 function is being called.
f2 function is being called by supplying f3 function as input and whatever it returns
is being passed to f1.



customers.stream()
                .map(Customer::getLocation)
                .distinct()
                .forEach(location -> {
                    System.out.println(location + ":");
                    customers.stream()
                            .filter(c -> c.getLocation().equals(location))
                            .forEach(System.out::println);
                });



do you know your theory...
stream
customers.stream()   // no functional programming
you are iterating thru the arraylist.

process
map(Customer::getLocation)   you are picking up customer location using method reference
                .distinct()  // no functional programming
pick up location from teh customer object in case there is duplicates avoid it.


collect.(terminal operations)
forEach(location -> {
                    System.out.println(location + ":");
                    customers.stream()
                            .filter(c -> c.getLocation().equals(location))
                            .forEach(System.out::println);
                });





we are passing a Lamda to forEach

people who dont show line numbers in the editor dont help them...

when we do streaming, processing or terminal operations we will using
lot of functional programming.. in functional programmer where interfaces
are there  Function, Predicate, M.. we will be using lamda expressions.



Lamda expressins to use there must be an interface scenario. T or F.
True.. if you see lamda being used..  Suresh life long will lamda only if has dependency
on Ramesh..

Are we "generalizing our learning" those who dont it suffer.. with information overload..



customers.stream()
                            .filter(c -> c.getLocation().equals(location))
                            .forEach(System.out::println);

stream  --customers.stream()
process  --filter(c -> c.getLocation().equals(locatio  
terminal -terminal operation  forEach(System.out::println);


patiently stick with package functionalprogramming.copypaste;
try to understand CustomerDemo.java and Customer.java
and then copy paste similar examples where Account
accounted, name, pincode and balance.
and try to play around with balance.

be willing to open other person program and make it work
in your system.































