Intent first, language next..

Relax .. and stay focused on the project. 
Don't invest emotions on the project.
A)working. go to the next thing..
B)not working... think what to change... 

Approach for any demo to stakeholders ..  every team member should be able to show..
1. here is my api. ( watch out for the names... keep it decent... )  ( JSON+ http status --ResponseEntity )
2. look at swagger. 
3. look at the json and http status
4. look at this component, here the json created above is used .
5. come the controller, show the service and repo .. dto and entity if need be.
6. show the h2 table structure...
7. tasks of ado boards description must be filled and  story must have description and acceptance criteria.
8. watch out for your PR...s


quick summary

1. focus on the project.. and don't invest emotions.. try to be organized..
2. theory has got value... architecture is the boss. functions and variables are still in fashion..
3. testing perspective, programmer must know unit testing and integration testing..
4  automation point of view.. ( Selenium to test browser based ui) .. API testing what are the parts of it, Bruno or SpringBoot
or whatever the company prefers..

Coming Monday is final review of the project from the "trainer /academic lead " point of view"...












coming Monday will the final review of the project from the triner point of view..
Decision making quality always improves if you put a factor of time..

business is always a tough thing.. to get a customer who pays needs lot of intelligence because we have to show value to him
or her..



checklist for ...
a07SpringBoot_React_Integration.pdf
a08rest_api_naming_conventions.pdf
both are present in folder of the repo in\a01notes\summaryimages\maybeproject

Todays focus
api testing.. you will get time to code your project relax and focus on the topic..

api testing..
1. you are talking controller funtdion testing..
2. importance of controller function I dont know how many of them know.. that is boss.
controller function is key thing in any project.. 


controller function what things comes to your mind other than controller function?

request .. response..  json  ..  http response status codes.. Distributed computing

api testing.
1. status code.
2. json content.
3. mode of request.
4. validation.
5. naming...


ecommerce market is 100 rupees

95 rupees is irctc.co.in
ama, flip 5 rs.


methphors , analogies..
metaphor is like a phrase. =
analogy is like a 

metaphors and analogy != science..

react .. axios .. controller function... service function .. repo and return journey begins..
once upon a time... there was something called SOAP and today whatever you built controller functions it is called as REST API

.. http protocol.. and we are using json.

2001 to 2010 .. world SOAp was popular why... there was no REST..
after 2010 REST is still used predominatly.... it is not SOAP is not good it is over engineering for most projects.


for http requests  , you have registered for the event.. and what you are getting is when the event occurs, taht function
is getting called. what you write inside the function nobody cares.. but convention is 


post is for adding
put is for updating
delete is for removing..


we can automate our api by using Bruno..

whenever we get json..
we should know how to covert that onto language object.

axios converts json into JavaScript and vice versa.
object mapper in spring boot.. converting json to java object and vice versa.

developers must know how to do unit testing and integration testing..


Coming Monday is final review of the project from the "trainer /academic lead " point of view"...




































