Relax .. and stay focused on the project. 
Don't invest emotions on the project.
A)working. go to the next thing..
B)not working... think what to change... 

Approach for any demo to stakeholders ..  every team member should be able to show..
1. here is my api. ( watch out for the names... keep it decent... )  ( JSON+ http status --ResponseEntity )
2. look at swagger. 
3. look at the json and http status
4. look at this component, here the json created above is used .
5. come the controller, show the service and repo .. dto and entity if need be.
6. show the h2 table structure...
7. tasks of ado boards description must be filled and  story must have description and acceptance criteria.
8. watch out for your PR...s

checklist for ...
a07SpringBoot_React_Integration.pdf
a08rest_api_naming_conventions.pdf
both are present in folder of the repo in\a01notes\summaryimages\maybeproject

















Today 2nd September adventure.
0.  you will get time for project completion. so concentrate on testing..
1.  ensure unit tests are running..
2.  ensure automation testing is done..
3.  continue working on the project...



Let us automated testing..
hope people have understood unit testing..

1. testing is a broad topic.. we must know... that is important from a project point of view. to know
what is approach team is taking towards testing.. Imitate first and then you think of Improving.

i think a developer must know unit testing and integration testing and participate in other kinds of testing as spectator..
Unit testing.. we are testing individual parts.. example only controller. only service, only dao ... which ever part is
slow and if we are depending on that part.. we simulate that or mock that..

we are testing not repostitory we are doing unit testing of service.. servcie functions will call repoistory functions
I dont my service funtion to be slow.. so that we will mock repoistory.. while testing service..


reemmber in the cloud there is no intellij.. inside docker container there is no intellij or vs code... 
command line is only way we should have an idea how to run it..


Have view on unit tesing and why mocking is needed..

Automation testing..
we want to test a browser based software without we launching the browser.. selenium.. automate
lauching of browser entering some values there.. and clicking on the button taking a screen shot and close the browser.
automate..

when we ran a selenium java program.. it will open the browser and start doing things whatever we have told
in our java program. the way it it does by using json or using interats with http..



selenium contacts  a website.. (this is ghost... because in real life what is meaning of this word, we are contacting
a web page in a web site.. ) .. you are looking at a page..

selenium gives lot of syntax for telling what to locate in the page, should you click on the button. or should you fill a
text box.. you got lot of syntax.. similar to you have javscript ...  querySElector..

"OpinionS" we are drowned with this in IT industry.. so enjoy sanctify by leanring cncepts and by hearting their opinions..

we are automating how we are interacting with a web page by  using selenium syntax..

Any system you need different kind of skills... every skill is important we should know what skill we bring in.

you can select something in the page via our usal stuff.. id, css classes etc.
or we can use xpath is another style of doing things. 

some 1000 years ago we discussed XML, XPath  system thinking helps.. ghost.. we are not zero in any thing
at same time we are not aiming for 5/5 in everything.. we have to moerate 


anything which is repetive should be automated...


coding does not require lot of intelligence..  design needs tonnes of intelligence because we have to accept htis force
called "Tradeoff"

web applciations.. (slower )  everything has to come
from serer .. or you lookmobile apps in your mobile( faster)  -- app is installed locally on mobile


web applications 100% be sure it will be slow...when compared to a mobile app or desktop app



to make things useful in real life will never happen by accident..


if we are in java or in any language good bye to a project which does not use a build tool
in react our build tool is npm... npm install, npm start, npm test  

in our java world our build tool is maven.
how do you compile
how do you run
how do you test
how to you clean up and recompile.


different styles of running java program using maven itself but one concept will not change, no matter
whatever you want to run your program?   -->  you must have a class that contains main function.



Testing
1. people should find relevance for it... ( if we can get convinced it is needed that is good start)
2. as a programmer unit testing and integration testing ( we should know how to code and test it) other testing we can participate.
3. selenium .. interact with a web page in an automated way...( you must know the browser)
selenium has lot of opinions in terms of syntax..



10.55 to 11.10AM you take a break
and join back continue your backend adventure...




















 