1. college 
2. branch
3. know your style of learning 5  
4. how much you tolerate uncertainty 5
5. how good are you at summarizing  lot of things into simple 5 sentences
people who cannot summarize will work under peope who can summarize.


culture is important... we are here to learn and not issue certificates to each of you..
opposite of truth is not lies but myth..

kids like arithemetic adults like algebra.

Java..

1. software setup... which we should know what we are doing "concious"
2. we should know our folder structure..
3. we should know environment settings for that software..

look at output, output is coming is pathetic.. it does not help any project.

you must know what is project folder and what each folder in it contains.
if we dont we should not call ourselves technical people.

in It industry especially
we have to bring the ghost to earth..

ghost == intent without details.
earth == give me the details...

act like a ghost... java is installed in my system.


we have used something called Path..

to really work on teh project we need X, Y, Z , P, Q, R in all the things 
we cannot become 5/5 at the same time becoming zero in anything will kill us in
the project. that is reason knowing your learning style is important.

locate file javac.exe on windows this tells you java is installed, will it work for us
or not... 

once you know the location of javac.exe..we have to take the help of os..
how does operating system locate some file.. answer is environment variable called Path.


most of them need cbi help to know what software is installed on their laptop that is bad sign..
we should be conscious of what software is installed in our laptop.. 1/5

java software

1.did you install it or unzip it.. consciously. ( you know the location)
2.did you know the location of the folder which contains javac.exe or java.exe.
3.did you tell the os hey look here is place to locate javac.exe or java.exe..
(Robert frost speaking... hey did you set up environment variable path ...
did you update the path to include that folder)'

 in comma state programmers.. system
java will be lower version
and javac will be higher version, this will create non stop entertainment  in terms
of vague messages given by system.

javac version shows X
and java version shows X+
It is ok it will run... 

javac version shows X
and java version shows X-
non stop entertainment will be there...
we should avoid it.

very conscious about hte version.


jdk means they have software which has got both javac.exe and java.exe. java development environemnt
jre means they have sotware which has only jre and not javac. exe .. java runtime

IntelliJ  -- tool ide..
make things easier for us... 
becoming a fan of IDE is a flavor of stupidity..

fans itself is a stupidity.

peope who dont know their project folder structure are comma state people pathetic ..


show patience to know how a folder structure looks like for  project and you must
know theory for it..
java project == ghost..
IntelliJ java project one category
maven java project  another category
graddle java project another category..
in all cases it is a java project but folder structure will change you must know
what folder structure indicates.






summary 

1. in systems multiple things are there, you cannot be 5/5 in all things, in somethings
we can 5/5 and in somethings we need to be atleast 1/5  and not zero....

in os know what is path.
in java world know what javac does.
in java world know what java does.
java is running .. ok.. java.exe is running.
I am compiling means javac.exe file is running.
folder structure you must know..


we have installed java software, there can be another software which needs to use 
java software..
Maven needs to know where java is installed in our system.
to tell other software where java is installed, we need a variable called JAVA_HOME
AND THIS NEEDS TO POINT TO FOLDER  WHERE JAVA IS INSTALLED..
F:\software\java-21-openjdk-21.0.11.0.10-1.win.jdk.x86_64

we use IntelliJ , IntelliJ tells hey look once you are creating the project with me you need
to show me where java is installed by browing .. ok.. welcome to the world "OPINIONS"
for first week we will building java projects using IntelliJ opinions...

we will attempt the following.

1. read the confluence page.
2. according to create a folder 
3. show java is installed in your system.
4. show intellj is installed.
5. create a java project and run the hello world program which comes along
with the project created.
6. pdfs... keep the java related pdf and assignment pdf 


those who get fascinated with just output will kill the project successfully.
here architecture is important

AC .. Archtecture to code vice versa will not work..

simplest architecture is 

this is very old even dinosaurs great grand mother whey they were coding were following this.
1. keep logic
2. keep presentation
separate.


platform it means somebody gives you a mechanism to write code and talk to the os.
jvm we can think of a platform..


how to ensure code is bug free?
get more number people to use it.


kids are afraid of coding.
adults are afraid of compiling.
recompiling is a pain...
so in java .... 

source .java compile it. .class.
this .class file is same for windows and Linux this is meaning of portable.

in java usually we dont need to recompile when we run it across os's 


jre is a subset of jdk..
if you want to "code" java programs  you need jdk.  == javac.exe
if you want only to run java programs, you need jre.  == java.exe

what ran
1. project.
2. program.
3. function.  ( great technical people0
4. all the above (moral science people)

those who picked others.. ghosts... ( English speaking professors in IT industry)


run walk crawl in computer science means functions only..


running what is running


1. function isnide .java file
2. function inside .class file  
a programmer who is not 5/5 in functions and variables should never call themselves programmer.



what is 5/5 in functions.

1. did you know.
1.1 defining the function
1.2 calling the function
1.3 assigning the function.

when we define a function show patience and think who is going to call it.
NO I cannot tell ok ok stupid programmer.

who is going to call it..


1. it can be other programmer.
2. it can be system.
3. it can some library which is calling it.

 in case of main, it is the jvm which will call the main function because of this.
we have to agree to the opinion of jvm. jvm tells 

1. that function must be public, it must be static it should not return anything to me.
and its name should be main only.. and I will give a String array so you should take it..


welcome to science, hell or heaven does not matter repeatability does.


the moment you define a function . stop and think who is going to call it
No I wont think about this, great, join the party of scrapy programmers.



two important things.
1. we are out of the misery of "one file" where my whole world is running  =="kids world"
2. in a project multiple files will be there, what will be there in multiple files.
multiple functions will be there, we need to call one from another..

from one function we will call another function. these functions could be present
in different files.

people who dont write code in multiple files are "infants" in coding telling hey look
at my output pathetic because in project multiple files will be there, how will multiple
gets decided based on architecture.

I expect none of your assignment to be present in one file...
it all should be multiple files.. only..

one file for presentation
one file for logic.
let presentation call the logic.. things..

There are compilation errors. so we should fix them and run it and tell let me check..
there is nothin to check when there is compilation errors.


dont byheart anything you should get used to these things.
when you want to change something, ie functionname, variable .. use the refactor option
in your ide.. 
Project success = culture * process * technology * tools.

how to fail the project, decide which one you want to make it zero.


Create a new class called App
put public staic void main inside this 
Create  new class called UI
write a static function called start
Create a new class called Logic.
create a static function called businesslogic
in main call UI.start, inside UI.Start call Logic.

Kids define a function and then think where to call it, pathetic.
in real life it is better to call a function and define it...

calling requires lot of intelligence you have to think what to pass, what it shoul return
.....

You are seeing multiple files..
welcome to real life.
you ae seeing funtions being called across multiple files .. welcome to real life.
these files are not written for fun.. they are written because of architecture..


get comfortable writing this in multiple files because architecture demands it.
if you have good ide, it will make things simpler..



Useful project means just answering one question
how many people are using it , for how long.
if we cant answer "lot of English words are there to chew the brain"


importance of writing things in multile files not based on mood
but based on the architecture.


we install java.. at this level it is distributable
we install c++, python or js ... we need lot of addon libraries to make it distributable..

distributed computing, dinosoaur great grand mother doing we are also doingbut it has 
got way lot simplified today...

history of computer science in one word... "make it easier"... Abstraction


what is common to stupid programmer and intelligent programmer both their programs work.
intelligent programmer can tell why it is working , stupid programmer tells enjoy
the output as long as it comes.

we need to write things in multiple files. even for hello world... that is way
to respect the project, architecture first code next..

when you talk about multiple files.
clear about how the function call is happening is a must..


I have three files
WelcomeToAc
UI
Logic.

that is ok.. but you should function call sequence that is happening.
No I wont ok congrats on being a ghost.

things start at WelcomeToAC.

Programmer can we convert somebody English into functions and variables that fit into
some architecture.


Before doing bad things, what we should tell good things...

keeping the logic and ui separate is a very old thing...
we must follow it today also..

quick summary get used to writing things in multiple files and also that means
function calls across multiple files..


Welcome to java opinion
you must write things inside a class most of times... and inside the class
only functions will be there... if that function turns out to be static.
Classname.functionname() to call  it..
this is syntax..

variables..
1. data type
2. scope.

what does data type indicate?
data type indicates content + operations.
example
int indicates, It can store some numbers and most important I can mulply, divide, subtract...
these are operations..

how do i choose data type
after i decide operations.


No I dont like operations ok then comma state programmer any data type will do.


"Hello"-"Hell"
minus operation is not defined on string.

Hello*Hell 


"Hell"+"o"     Hello in java because   + operation is defined on string as concatenation.


int i =3; why int..
i = i *4; // it wont be 12 , until i is an int.

on data type. learn to be patient and foucs on operations that is basis on which
you pick a data type.

operator..
pick one interesting operator...  answer should be  =
show me how assignment happens without using = 


when ever we pass during function call or return from function call is assignment.


void freak()
{
int x =4;
return x;

}


main()
{

int k=freak();

}


how do you recognize kids functions, no inputs and no return types...
kid is afraid if call a function will it go, if it goes will it come back... so write
everything in a single function.



in most of present langauges... assingments works differently if data type is simple( primitive)
or non primitive

int i=3;
int k=i;
k =44;
print the value of i... it will print 3.. why ... what got assigned to k was a copy of i
and not i.


int x[]=new int[3];
int y[]=x;
y[0]=44;
print x[0];// it will be 44 because y and x are pointing to same array.


behavior of asisngment will change depending on what data type you are  where.
java, python, javascript ..... except c and c++ and c and c++ older than java...



variable.
data type.. you pick based on operation.
data type will also decide how assignment works..

int i =23;
is it a valid operation to tell find out the length of i.

float f =(float)33.45;// in java compilation error why....
33.45 is considered double in java which is bigger data type.
and we cannot push into smaller type automatically.. 



what is difference between   = and ==

== is logical operators operands wont change..
later on we will see approaching computer science with a bit of mathematics always helps..
but this is rant...

if( i==3)//z
  if( j==4)  //y
     if ( k ==5)  // x
         break;


Array.
1. fixed size
2. contiguous memory allocation.

how do you crate an array
promise that i need an array


int x[];//one day it will become an araray.. declaration.
x=new int[10];// delivery ... we tell now  x is pointing to an array.
int y[]=x;


1. page32.
each asisngment you have do it in multiple files.
one contains main
other contains logic and returns to the main
and main prints it.

2. you complete it... pleaes go thru the pdf... 


Ideally
1. X.java .. main
 there are multiple functions  startDisplayTableof10....
where are these functions present these are in X.java only..

2 inside each of these functions you will 


Logic.getTablesof10() return... and you diplsay it..




Main.java
7 functions including main.
inside each function you will call the logic.java respective function

Logic.java
6 functions


-------------------------------------
Oops programming little bit and stop and ask work on the assingments

1. I like oops I dont like oops all this is scrap because oops is everywhere
for the last 50 years now...





what is advantage of oops, making things easier to maintain... ghost line we will see
the details..


how do you judge maintenance.. how many things change, when a change request comes..


what is a class? in oops.

1. class is used as a unit of encapsulation in oops. what is encapsulation
accessing data in an organized way.  think of Depts in a company...

suppose I need some information from accounts dept we go to the accounts person
and ask him they give us... analogy..

I want something from the class. ... I call a function of the class, that in turn will
give access to the variables of that class.

earthworm view.. coding view..
Data type.. content + operations..

What is a class, class is a project specific data type..
why we should create project specific data type, so simple project demands it..

what does theory tell you
what does data type have content + operations.


content in the class   == non static variables.
operations == non static functions present in the class.

my project.... meaning of project specific classes are going to different..
this will be done by using a class concept..

I define a class... I am teaching the system hey look here is my project specific data type.
I want to create  variable of the class.. loosely I am going to create an object of the class.
after you created a variable... what do you do... operations on the class.


when you see a class how do you understand.

1. project specific data type  ( non static variables, non static functions)
2. it is used to group functions together ( earlier thing Fibonacci.. )

we will create an object of the class. we are talking about 1.

class as a datatype

non static variables
non static functions
one category of non static function is constructor.
at time of object creation if you want to enforce something, then you can consider
constructor.

example I have a data type called Process, without giving ProcessId I should
not create an object of the class that means


in the proess class create a constructor which will tak processId.




member functions
this




see whether you are able to download the zip. I know you are the class contents
in your system..
a02jaaworkspace\corejavaproject\src\programmingbasics
copy programmingbasics folder into your src... of your exsiting project.

welcome to real life if you know how to make other person program work in your project
that is good skill to start with.


1. check module 1 assingments are done.
2. prove my programming basics in your project.
3. spend time reading the pdf.

































