today .
to make things useful in real life will not happen by accident
we need system thinking..


master = do your  job + .. also

scrum master.
1. share the boards... 
2. they will monitor boards for story, tasks and progress.
3. blockers..


1. react ... ( how things change)
props, state, and route ...
2. Events ( what this word implies.. )
3. project related adventures.
3.1 repo how will it work for all the team members.
3.2 folder committed to the "our" branch.
3.3 board update ... 
4. multiple things todo.. operate thru a checklist..



what is assumption.
1. you people understood what node, what npm does..
2. your react is working because of both..
3. got an idea how react component appears on the screen...
3.1 created the component ( defined a function with some JSX syntax)
3.2 you decided where to use the component  ( Tag name )
3.3 how did you component appear in the html page.
3.3.1 you had an index.html.
3.3.2 there is javascript index.js.
3.3.3 in this index.js you told put the app component under root id of html.
3.3.4 typically we use our component under the app






but important point dont forget.
1. javascript.. language nature..
2. real problem is very simple in my "opinion" trying to digest the fact
that int is not a the great thing.. but object is greatest thing in any
programming language takes time especially for people who come from college.
college has decided their life to only int..
3. function assignment will follow you everywhere..




function f1(freak)
{
	console.log(freak);

}


f1("horror");






state, props , meaning of event.. ( react nice engish called hooks)
get, post, put, delete.
modes of request in http


keep your bp level normal and focus on concepts you will see that helps
we have less things to remember only...

what does component have.
1. a piece of ui.
2. some event handling.-- a function will get called eventually..
3. some changing part and some non changing part.
4. do some logic.
5. some amount of styling can be done..

theory of component is great and we must know it..
but how we create react application there can be opinions on it.
the opinion we prefer to use create-react-app. it has an opinion
on folder structure..

By default in react when a project is created there will
be one component 100% present  ( T/F)-- True ... App
App will appear in the html page... somebody should done
the logic taking the app and ensuring it is put in the html page
this also is done automatically when you create a react project
index.js... which will put app into the place called root in the html.


you are seeing something in the browser in react project.
how did that appear..
you should able to move thru a set of files to show how it appeared.
== I understood architecture...



any person who does not know his folder structure should not work on
the computer...src

src 	
   page36
	page36startcomponent
   page37
	page37startcompoen


being conscious about folder structure is a must.. in react things
come under src.. under src ok... create further folders and dump it
on what basis should i create folders, based on feature you are implementing it.

I have all my files only under src... and no folders below it..
ok funeral has began.. it is just a matter it will get completed..

hope moral of the story is.
1. how does app component appear in the html
2. in src, folders are needed... 


all of you hope you are convinced, that java and javascript have
nothing in common other than the word called java.
we are using the word javascript.. that is very common.. but actually
we are using a standard called ES6

when you write any react application you can have 1000 great standards
but finally you have to satisfy only one boss.. who is that boss? Browser

browser will always be behind the standards.. so you need a mechanism
to change things to what browser understands.. that tool also is present\
as part of react library..


key thing is know that your UI is no longer in a single html page... with
a single css... rather it is split into a series of components.

each component can have.
1. ui part
2. js part
3. css part to it 
3 is optional..

component has typically got.
1. ui.
2. event handling part of that ui.
3. changing part or referring of that ui.



one asisngment in react and one assingmnt without react and infer
which one is easier.. there is no doubt 100% react thing wil be easier
to deal with... this is my rant.. and realize it..

will react faster than html , js which we usually code for a real ui
answer is yes.. because react can update only that part of the page which changes , whereas we may update the entire page..


you have a component and section in the component called x which
has to change...

1. the way we do it in react is..
tell react hey look x is changing part in the component. how by using
a mechanism called state..
whenever x changes. we tell react hey x has changed.. 
then react will come to the html and upate that x.
we should not update x directly.

Freak.js
//component 2 child component
export function Freak({abc,fwo})
{
return (<div> ok enjoy entertainment </div>);


}

To call  function you must be inside a  another function.
you are inside another component...

//component 1 --parent component
function App()
{

	function tolerateJavascript() {  console.log("horrible"}



	return <div> generalize learning <Freak fwo={toleratejavascript} horrible="whocares" abc="nobodycares"/> <div>
	}



to pass information from parent component to child component use props..v

drowned with function assingments people who dont know theory enjoy your misery.

everytime you see function assignment you will see the following.

X=map,find, filter, event registration...
1. some function is being called. X
2. some function is being defined Y
3. some function is being assigned Y

X(Y);
100% sure X is defined by Ramesh and called by Sursh.
100% sure Y is defined by Suresh and called by Ramesh.
100% Ramesh knows that  he is going to call Y because suresh called X and passed Y as input argument.


until we open other person code, there is no proof we know anything..


hope we have an idea. of what prop is.. attributes passed while
using the component, becomes object input at time of defining
the component. since we told object, destructuring is possible.
welcome to dynamic things in react.. how did dynamic thing appear
in my component 

one way is thru props..



project failure can happen to 3 reasons.
1. process issue 90% ... boards are not correct, confusion in requiements
, git revenge on t he team...
2. react skills. ( 5%)
3. java skills. ( 5%)









during destructring X becomes Y..

X = object
Y = independent variables.


State ... if you have any changing part within a component that change
is represented by state.

what is state..


react opinion.
1. React is telling us  ,if you want to change something, you dont change it
you tell me, I will change it.. 
2. Becuae I have an opinion on how the UI
should get updated.. 
3. I will check entire ui and update only that part of ui
which has to be changed.  -- virtual dom... (shakespearen jargon in react)


Event..   

1. some variable changes.
2. somebody should be informed about this..








if plane that is going to Mumbai to Jaipur is cancelled
I am looking at my mobile non stop, I did not receive any intimation
that plane was cancelled today..
because I did not register for that event?

Function asisngment..

coding implication of hooking...
I defined f1.
I assigned f1.

<button onclick="f1()"> ok theory is important </button>

we have written code, we are hooking outselves to the system and telling
hey system when event ... called onclick occrs tell me by calling my f1
function.


Event 
1. hey do you its meaning first... ( change in variable value, notification mechanism...)
2. what are you .. Event Source or Event LIstener..( I dont know comma state person ...)
3. ok I am event listener ok you need hook.
3.1 i will define a function.  -- function name is  kt
3.2 i will assign a function.
3.3 it is understood I wont call the function, somebody else will call it..
4. event source will call the function kt...when the event occurs..


11.18AM .. state..so cool react being event listner Q and our component
being P... ie event source..

when we say state i am using..we are event source..who is q event lisnter
it is react.. which is event listener.


Event Listeners do.
1. they define a function.
2. they register for the event  ( function assignment happens)
3. they dont call that function.
4. somebody else has to call that function when event has occurred.

How do you know Event Source.
1. we know something is changing.. here in this case X.
2. x will change then he will call some function not defined by him
but assigned to him...how did he know this function, it was assigned
to him..


welcome to theory or enjoy non stop English usage..


 const [seconds, setSeconds] = useState(0);
1. useState is a ready function of react, we are passing it a number.
2. it returns us an array.. whose first element will value we passed...
obviouisly a number in this case.
2. second element of the array is a function definition which help
us change the value of the first variable..
3. why did we do this.. we had a changing part in our html called seconds.
react opinion dont change antthing directly come thru me... that come thru me is nothing call setSEconds function to change seconds.. 

setSeconds function calling we will do.
defining we have not done. who will define ... REact...useState belongs
to react.

Event Listener
1. REact has defined a function
2. assigned to you.
3. told you when somethings changes please call this..



const [seconds, setSeconds] = useState(0); 
react is registered with us.. saying hey look when that variable called
second changes, you intimate me by calling setSEconds function..
we are Event source, we do two things.
1. something changes.. secons.
2. we let the listener know... hey look this changed by calling their function
in this case we are not definers of setSEconds.. we are only caller of 
setSecond...



i have a component, in that component something is changing. (x)
when x changes, react is telling hey look please tell me x has changed
how... 
react tells use the function useState , give a default value for x, I will
define  a function for calling when X has changed.. when you feel x has
changed please call this function ...


Event source..
1. change something.
2. call function of event listener.




whenever you call a function what should we do first.. 
open	documentation


Hope people understand when we tell state,, in our code we have event source
and react is event listener..


useEffect(() => {
        const intervalId = setInterval(() => {
            setSeconds(prev => prev + 1);
        }, 1000);

        // Cleanup timer on unmount
        return () => clearInterval(intervalId);
    }, []);

is used whenever you are making changes anything related to the browser.. or
outsie the ui...
setInerval is a window function, it has not thing nothing related to your page...document. hence.. we use useEfect





1.props.
2. state.
3. event handling.. we are q.. no doubt 

1. in react component how things are changing..
props
because of p and q.


The way you link up the css class with react is by using class-name and
not class syntax..



whenever we want to change a value of the variable given in state.
what we do is call the setFunction which we got from react


setFunction(anotehrfunction)

anotherfunction(existingvalue)
	{

return newvalue fo 

}



all the syntax is new agreed.
summarize your theory.. how...
1.generatedsummaries\a18week5npmandreact\02react_app\a03_react_usecase1_components_props_state
2. you will under src components folder.
copy the components folder to your src... 
now ,open your app.js..
look at the app.jsx  in src dont copy app.jsx to your system please..

look at app.jsx and one by one dont bother about css
make the component work in your app.js and then understand
the code..

component are written by  me.
making the comonents work is done by you..
using the components also you are only doing it..


so summary is.
1. it is your project only..
2. you copied the components from my project
3. in your app.js and not mine, you started using my component.
the syntax for that is present in my app.jsx file in src folder.
4. do a small poc.. 
component should show one textbox and a button.
when you click on the button it should add the number given in the textbox
and one more number will come from the props and show the result
below in the textbox. ( if in a good mood try this without react also..)
5. in the same example if answer got is divisible by 2, then show
the sum in green color or else show in red color.. 
6. poc making.. is a must to know theory... we will summarize it one more
time. by using mind map..













