whattodo.txt has been updated.. 1st September 2026 adventure...
culture is everything, clarity cannot be got by being busy...
relax and focus on the project
losing time due to being ...disorganized .

Stake holder expectation...
1. show swagger api and show the react component which will use it... 
2. integration with react ... 
3. insurance policy of unit test and integration test for some modules .. all the modules preferable.

creativity 
1. we will see this later on.. it is possible after Friday...

1.understand unit testing code in the class, 
2.for your project this may be the approach.
   2.1 complete backend and review it whether it matches the front end requirement.
        by using swagger...  get copilot to confirm that this ui will match the requirement.
        dont bother about login , security.. as of now...
        how to do it.. look at 
       \a01notes\summaryimages\maybeproject\a07SpringBoot_React_Integration.pdf
   2.2 look at the naming conventions for api names.. 
       a01notes\summaryimages\maybeproject\a08rest_api_naming_conventions.pdf
   2.3 integration with react we will do it after the review for this is done..
       aim for this by Thursday Evening..
   2.4 if possible integrate with react also... 



Testing..
project..
hope is by 12.00PM Clcok you will free to start working on your project.


Unit testing..
1. we are tesing a part of our code.. example one component one controoler. one service,  one repo
is example of unit testing...who should do unit testing no debate.. only programmer should unit testing

programmer has to tell look here I cooked the stuff, I will eat it and show it is ok. then then other people
can eat it..
best way to tell what my code does, is ask the person to go thru my unit tests..unit test document for your code..


Unit testing , testing has to be fast...


controller function   --> service function -- repo function

	for example when i testin my service function, repo may be  taking time. so my service function
	should waste its time by waiting for repo function.. especially during unit testing..

while you are unit testing, you cannot wait for slowing things..
X is using Y.. Y is taking time and we are doing unit testing for X... so what we should
is simulate Y inside X and finish unit testing for X.

X= service function
Y = Repository function

simulate Y inside X.. is called with a technical word "Mocking"


Unit testing.
1. what are you testing ( controller or service or repo  ), react .. ( component, service )
2. mocking.. ( we are testing X and X needs Y, Y is slow... so mock Y inside X and finish unit testing for X )
3. we have a thing called Junit .. which is used for unit testing in java applications.. 
we have whole set of annotations.. @BeforeTest @AfterTest @Test...


@Mock indicates that we planning to simulate something here.

@ where you the mock to used.. that also should be clear.
  @InjectMocks.



@Simulate the clock.


Where you want to use this simulated clock
@InjectMock







we had a mock object.
we had decided where to inject the mock.
w are teching mock object what to mock... how..

hey look if somebodytells findbyId(1) then return "hello";


x. Mock 
y. Inject
z .. teaching some function for x...



quick summary
1. know what are you testing  ( unit tests...  service, repo, controller..)
2. if you are testing controller and if you feel service is slow, mock service inside Controller test
3. writing a test... 
test your function. see what is that you got as output, what was expected output and assert it.



when it comes to unit testing.
1. think what are you testing.X
2 think within X what are you calling.. Y or Z or Q
3. ask yourself Y or Z or Q is it slow... if yes... you are testing X
4. whatever is slow learn to mock it when testding X.
5. mocking it means take what you are mocking and teach it how to behave for a particular function call.


----------------------------------------------------
your project..

clarity matters.

1. hope is react is integrated.. you are doing in backend , dont write even a single line of code
which react will not use.

how will prove this in your code..
all DTOs must be used by react.


I currently dont trust any team... that they have identified how many apis to call from the ocmoennt
what are they.... I hope it is done..  use the copilot and ask it hey.. is this json usage for this comment
of mine.. yes or not.. review it..

dont bother aobut security as of now..

Entity must be slave to the DTO... entity should not do anything which DTO does not do..


review your DTO's  entity is subset of DTO's only and then table creation takes place..



ensure DTOs are used in react.
ensure Entities do only those thing which DTO tells it to do..



























