Today topic

1. variables.. (  scope, data type( content , operations))
data type( content , operations)  -- inheritance, aggregation, composition, dependency..
datastructures..
 
2. Exception handling.

3.  functions... polymorphism...

know how to summarize , overload of information not worth...

anybody who does not use proper nowns in their communication is going to chew
other person brain, most useful word "for example"


variable object... all of them have meaning.. we should be conscious if we want
"be a" technical person and not "act like" technical person.


variable is a superset word..
primitive vaiable to indicate , int,char, boolean.. basic types in java
object types...  ( reference and object)


one of World Biggest problems is 
all kids are happy when they see int or char or float
their bp increases if they see a class... reason is
very smple, they just dont recognize class also is a data type.

class is  data type most of times and other times grouping mechanism.


state word means 

1. you have an object belonging to some class.
2. value contained in its content at given point of time..
that is state.
for example.


most concepts in real life, need the word "we" to understand
and not I... for example.

Ramesh wrote the Customer class.
Suresh wrote the HospitalManagement Class.
suresh is creating he object of customer class.
Ramesh wants to force something on Suresh during object creation.
then Ramesh should ensure Customer class  has got some constructor,, which will
tell suresh what he is expecting..


when we dont know any concept, then synax is there to chew other people brain..


overloading.
two functions with same name but different input types .. is overloading.
ceo jargon polymorphism.


IT people and Biology people two people infected with "jargon syndrome"
 
stupid people argument I will confuse the computer ok dont go home at 5.30 go
at 5.30am
flavor of stupidity

f1(int x) {}
f1(int y) { }

any function can be overloaded typically.
tell me how to ensure I cannot overload a function. simple forget it, you cannot.

class as a data type
constructors purpose, when it gets called , syntax adventure, it can be overloaded.


"this"


scope of variable..
local variable variable which is specific to function
non local variable   variable which is indendent of functions.


Heap and Stack.
Heap is a memory region where a programmer can put something while running of the program.
Stack is something which system will use and programmer cannot control anything in it..

void f1()
{
Patient p =new Patient();

}
p is on stack
new Patient is on heap.
p will be removed automatically
new Patient wil be removed by a process called garbage collection.


non static variables == instance variables
instance == object.
any variable which is specific to object , what is it instance variables
or non static variables.

in real life, input is a layer.. and not a function. but in kids world
we are all happy learning an input function...

the way we accept input in java is by using Scanner.
Scanner is a data type in java... it is a class.
what is next question how do I create an object of Scanner.
answer is , look at the documentation for constructors.
Scanner sc =new Scanner(System.in);  //why person who wrote scanner, told us
you need to give where I should scan from, I am telling scan from keyboard.. System.in
what you want to scan

I want to scan a string

String s = sc.next();
I want to scan a number

int i = sc.nextInt();







entertainment was expected for new people..
int disappeared.. bp level increases, customer appeared.

1. your code should be same project as yesterday.
2. how many classes
bp high people. -- 2 classes. Customer ( data type)  Page59  main function inside the thing.
bp normal -- 3 classes.
1. Customer.
2. Page59  main
3. Logic.
I am interested in knowing what you functions in logic an what will you call page59

high bp or normal bp does not matter, architecture first, code next.







0. packages.
1. association
2. inheritance.
3. String functions
4. Datastructures. super light weight topic.


for the whole week in java, you should not create a new project.
you had two assignments..


what is packages...
folder is a os concept.

packages is a folder concept in java.. what does it mean jvm will recognize it.


when we have a doubt are we willing to write a "small program" on our doubt.
== poc making proof of concept. best way to overcome uncertainty...


no matter what happens show loyalty towards project and then the program ..
many people dont know how to use the IDE... college disease.. define the function
and then call it... not needed in todays ide.. for last 20 years..
if you call a function, ide can define it and you fill the logic afterwards..
try .. if possible this style it will save time..


you will get some time to put your pg33 assignment in package pg33
and pg5x assignment in package
create a pacakge, drag and drop in IntelliJ.



Relationship between Classes.

in kids world only one Class will be there.
in project there many classes, to interact between them we need some relationships
those have name...

Dependancy ( loose relationship we can have)
you got two classes A and B.
inside some function of B. you create an object of A...
then you term them as dependency..
you were doing it today.. 

HospitalSystem (X) has got a dependency on Patient(Y) in the function main(Z)
X=Ramesh
Y=Electrician Suresh.
Z=electrical work.



Association  (" has a"   --- Whole -- Part  Mobile "has a " Sim
					    Mobile "has a " battery
					    Socket "has a"  IPAddress
					    Window  "has a " Button
observe we are not talking about any particular function.
Mobile has a "sim" -- Association.



	 Aggregation
	 Composition
Inheritance



how do you recognize in the code.


class Mobile
{
	there will be a reference of Battery and Sim
	Battery b;
        Sim s;

	//observe where Battery object is getting created and where
	// sim object is getting created.
	Battery object is getting created inside mobile.
	public Mobile()
	{
		b=new Battery();
			
	}



}

if you throw way the whole, part also is useless ... composition.  (Mobile and BAttery)

if you throw way the whole, part can be used with some other thing  == Aggregation
Mobile and Sim.

class Mobile
{
private Sim sim  ;//object not created inside Mobile but supplied from outside
//proof of aggregation.
private Battery b=new Battery();// composition


public void putSim(Sim s)
{
	sim =s;

}

}
dont byheart ,... take time but understand the concept, it is design not syntax..
at code what it will do, it will change teh scope of the variable..








dependency
aggregation and composition ( categories in Assocaition)


Inheritance..  = Hieararchy..
we make hierarchy to generalize our learning..

Chemistry "is a" Science
Physics " is a  Science

SavingAccount is a Account
CurrentAccount is a Account

when you make hierarchy you can generalize things and most important
you can add something at the top of the hierarchy and expect all things
in the hierarchy to have it.
when you have a hierarchy
the advantage is.. first you can add something at the top of hierarchy
and all things below are expected to have it..


for example.

Device.
	id
	transmitdata.
	usbinterface

PressureSensor extends Device .. subclass.
TemparaturSEnsor extends Device  -- subclass


IT industry is notorious for English terminology speaking people..
English wil sound great , technically it will be scrap..


we have a librry, library needs books.
so let us make library as super class and books as subclass. do you agree?

Libary and Book should be association and not inheritance

dont abuse inheritance... put a "is a " test.
overloading.. functions with same and different input types.

overriding.. runtime polymorphism.

what is it behaviouor depending on context..
greatest college example of runtime polymorphism.


calculate area or perimeter of a shape..
answer it depends on the shape..




what happens in runtime polymorphism.

1. inheritance or interface scenario 
2. you have some particular implementation which one we dont know.
I will not know whether I will get electric or petrol or aeroplane
3. we call a function... ( polymorphic functon... non final function)
4. which function gets called depends on what type of implementation you have.
this is called as runtime polymorphism.






quick summary
1. class as a data type get used to it..
2. know some minimum theory on relationship between classes.
3. runtime polymorhis, interface, ds... we will see it slowly.

basic.. lkg kid or 100 year old kid... revision is the way to learn.

1. number1 assignment is put things in packages.
2. ensure page 57 and page 32
3. start attempting pg 36 and 37 assingnments.. tolerate uncertainty.. and try
completing it.
4. look at the GitHub
https://github.com/noteonbg/sc_26axessacademy/tree/main/a02jaaworkspace/corejavaproject/src
make the folder
a01basicconcepts
programmingbasics
remember these are packages.. if you copy to src it will work.
5. go thru the https://github.com/noteonbg/sc_26axessacademy/tree/main/a01notes/summaryimages and relate
to how you are coding.




create a data type called Employee with empno and salary
create an object of it and ensure empno and salary details of that object
get printed.

recurring theme is no matter what, loyalty is towards project
respect architecture .... multile files. ... multiple function calls.



write a hello world program. in java.. kid is happy ok.. is kid in the project
or busy in a program.

test without marks..
we need a data type called REctangle with length and breadth and operations
called perimeter and area... write a program and show..
create an object and show its perimeter and area.


please go thru pdf an cover the theory also .. it will help in multiple choice
test coming on coming Wednesday or Thursday...






























