concept is not a function of time.
syntax is a function of time.. should I byheart syntax answer is know
why .. i I am using it frequently i will remember, If I dont use I forget..
we are in the AI world...
ai tool will generate tonnes of code, if it did not work blame is on us...
we should become good code reviewers..


theory...

in depth is undefined.. learning anything in depth, implies show me how
does it help me in a project.. be buried under unnecessary terminologies
and jargons..

Cloud..
Linux. what happened, where you learning the os, NO, learnin how to interact
with the OS commands... shell script and utility commands..

Git...
change control system, but issue is we are still in the I world..
so here there will be gaps..

Docker..
1. conterization platform.. why.. because of cloud...
series of the commands...

if the cloud did not recognize docker, docker would be irrelevant for us..
how docker start for you...

1. your program is working... ( assignment )
2. writing a  Docker file.
3. creating a a Docker Image.
4. executing the docker image to have a container at runtime.
5. check the status of the program running inside the container.
6. pass something from your outside world to the docker world
7. allow docker to contact your external world especially IO, disks..
8. look for networking issues in your docker world... 


what will happen in real life new project also.
1. we have to do.
2,3,4, all will be automated...
5 , 8 we should have the skill.
6,7 .. are all business needs...


what is my expectation from you as of now... (Project based scenario)

( Git)
0. are you comfortable pulling the latest changes
from the remote and merge with your current branch irrespective of its state.
1. are you updating your ado boards.. week3 board update..
2. while coming remember the number.... 
3. are you comfortable coding things in multiple files in java
and do you know your folder structure
4. Logging should become part of coding.. program is alive or dead who 
cares is it leaving data why it is alive or dead. ( dinosaur great grand mother
doing it)
5. you go inside docker image and see whether it is alive or dead...



why did you create a script in Linux?
for doing the program or like doing the task again and again.. 
like repetitive tasks

what do you inside the script file.
commands which Linux os will understand..

"in depth .." tell him I will listen to your "in depth" but after this I will
open my code you have to show me how this inforamtions if you cant show me
then dont talk me about those words ... why 


work

how to get full red in Tuesday review.. have repo inside repo.
9999willilams repo... 
.git folder.
except this folder in another folder inside it. there should not be .git.
 

a03Git-Merges-Tags-Undo.md ( this will  help objective 0)
ensure all your changes did so far... are pushed to the remote..


basic thing in networking.


docker run -d -p 3000:3000 --name nodec myimage
curl command in my

networking service is running inside some port of the docker image... running.
how do you expose it to outside world....  -p publishing  

hey docker take this internal port which you have 80
and run it and expose that outside to me in a port 90








1. try to find out how to ngnix web server in docker and get a hello
world program working.

2. ensure you repo folder does not further repos..

3. ensure you commit all the data you did so far.. push it to remote repo.

4. a03Git-Merges-Tags-Undo.md 
and check git also assingments..
delete the .git folder if you copy that to your Williams repo.

complete this


1. look at your .gitignore.
2. have a folder called poc\
poc\ in any module when we have a doubt, in our project we create a folder
called poc and clarify our doubt thereand it will not get commited to git..
3. ensure git assignments you have screen shot  or txt file
4.please ensure no repo , inside repo..
Williams will have .git folder and none of your other folders for next 8 weeks.
will ever have .git inside.. it
5. add .gitignore and commit it first.
6. add all the things done so far.. and commit it and push it to the
remote repo.
7 look at status... 
it should show same
8. reach till here and then start ...a03Git-Merges-Tags-Undo.md
9. in docker show me the nodejs program and java assignment which you
did yesterday both work.
10. ngnix hello world docker program find out and make it work.
11. update week 3 tasks.. add a separate doubttask
12. make a checklist for git, have it on your desktop...
why use memory for commands..



most important tip for merging..

you are on the local repo
1. commit or stash your current changes.
2. know your branch...
3. you do pull.
4. you do merge.
5. resolve the conflict if you any..


read rom official source and then go to the freaky source...



"Tremendous amount of image"
Images are there to be changed.. whey they will change.

when you make a new commit, why did you new commit because code changed..
once code changes, new commit is made, a pipeline runs.. and new docker image
is created, deployed on the cloud and that will run..

new image creation happens everytime and frequently in project.
that is reason we prefer docker to any vm or lx....

all those things will be taken care by orchestration engines kuberntes.
what is probability of docker file changing in a project every month..
zero.
when you are making a docker you should think what software you need..
for your program to run.. and put that... think take some time and understand
you should not change it every day....

docker image will keep changing because our logic we have written in our program
will keep changing...
that is advantage of cloud, quick deployment and quick releases..

in cloud based world continuously containers will be removed and added..


rebuilding the image... existing image should be stopped..
if you are making another image.... that image exists and new image also exists..


image x , install curl and try curl --version
stop it and restart the image and check whether curl still exists or not.



image x, install curl, make a new image y.
stop x
start y and check curl --version.
start X and check curl --version.


container code is immutable.


do according to whattodo.txt file given

1.. write decent code ( code + test cases)
2.  commit it.
3.  relax.. automated docker image creation, deployment...
4.  see whether things are running.
5.  ok some entertainment comes.
6.  now start debugging.


















