1. we will cover web basics and html basics... over zoom out what does it imply
2. should aim for understanding the architecture code and also functional programming with that
why.. javascript needs it.
3. git ... remote repo or the local repo changes. how do you sure both are sync..
4. look at your assignments tarting from java. git. container... let us can we move anythingto done
or not..


today
1. understanding architecture... 
2. how you are approaching web..
3. git sorted out today itself.
4. boards how does it look.. can we have something in done 

most important thing. if i give a problem statement can you write the problem in architecture
style.. ( super important for every one in the team )


we have item model. item, itemname, price and category.
1. give itemno, i should see the item details
2. price and category, item should get updated


1. i want to see all items which are greater than price.
2. i can add item.. to the list.


3 layer or n layered..
n layered. service and dao can be get split in multiple small lauers.

Q and R can be split into multiple layers..

Context must be know to be relevant..

1. 100% sure without javaarchitecture we are dead in the project.
2. in a system we cannot be zero in anything at same 5/5 in everything..

really how HTML, css, javascript fits in the project.

welcome to real life CTC

C constraints..
T Tradeoffs
C contraditions
we have to live with it..

web part..
1. you understand html 3.5/5 .. ok
2. css is super important if we try to spend more time may get lost . how to moderate ( 1.5/5)
how layout works in css.. that is important to think know
3. javascript ( 3.5/5)
entire thing is about building presentation after knowing "Reacts opinion"

our fate .. overload of information we have to figure out how to summarize...

we will meet of ghosts in real life, we have to request or fore them to come to earth..
ghost == only intent no details.
hey give me details ...coming to earth..

welcome to systems we cant be 5/5 in everything, we cannot be zero in everything..

for technical topic  called X we learn... the most important learn which is official
website..
x=Linux
x=java
x=docker
x=sql
x-html,css

when you are building a presention using html, css get used the color schemes of standard chatertered..

Syntax is not easy.. Linux, docker... 
html has got its own syntax.
css has got its own syntax and lots of propeties.
javacript language, is in category of its own... 

see how best you understand how to approach html and css (2/5) ...
javascript (3/5)
html uses tags and these tagsare interpreted by the browser.

html tag.
head
body..
whateer is there in the body tag will appear as part of the body .. in body of the browser.

javascript can be used in all 3 ( presentation  (view,controller,model), service, repo (dao)  ) layers..
but we are using it only for presentation layer...  nodejs.... 


file:///f%3A/scproject/sc_26axessacademy/a01notes/summaryimages/generatedsummaries/a15htmlcss/poc/poc1.html

http://127.0.0.1:5500/a01notes/summaryimages/generatedsummaries/a15htmlcss/poc/poc1.html

for tags we can use some attributes example id .. , there are lot of other things
but let us us focus on id, why...


when we see any page we will think which part has to change, which part should not change.
when we see any page we will think which part has to change, which part should not change.
when we see any page we will think which part has to change, which part should not change.
when we see any page we will think which part has to change, which part should not change.
when we see any page we will think which part has to change, which part should not change.
when we see any page we will think which part has to change, which part should not change.
when we see any page we will think which part has to change, which part should not change.
when we see any page we will think which part has to change, which part should not change.
when we see any page we will think which part has to change, which part should not change.
when we see any page we will think which part has to change, which part should not change.


typically tags are given id because they may have to change.. dynamically.



generally the rule is structure is decided by html, styling by css, dynamic behavour
by javascript.. javasript can access css internally to change the look or change the content of the html that is what you are going to learn next week..

UL, OL, Li.. ok list items ok.. how to build menus in real life.. how we must learn css..

links.. is way thru which we navigate.

<a href="where to go" > what to show </a>
<a href="www.google.com"> search </a>

the reason we use a form is group things..


i want to take userid, password, email and group them and send to place called X.
then you need a form...

will take userid, password, email independently.. ok you dont need a form..

1. form tag, has got two attributes, action and method.

action="where your request will be processed" method="http mode of request" .. get, post, put and delete.


id is used only with the client side, within the browser for processing
on the server when request coms only names matters and not id..

kids are afraid of compilation errors, adults are afraid of logical errors.
submit button,.. invokes action...
normal button will not invoke action
reset button. resets valus.


submt button and reset button makes sense only if you have a form.
welcome to theory...


get and post both are modes of request 
get goes as part of header... in the protocol so information is visible add favourites
post goes as part of body.. so information is not visible..  you cannot do it...
http is not secure...




http://127.0.0.1:5500/search?q=abc -- get mode of request.


when we are using http.. dont talk about security and all relax..
get will reveal information as part of header..
post will not..
get can be bookmarked
post cannot be..
get will send less information
post. 



show patience while designing the ui
0. let the best design win..
1. know what logic you plan to implement.
2. think changing and not changing part
3. patiently work out the html and css part.
4. then think of javascript part
5. link javascript with your service layer..

when we want to do many things.. do we want a checklist or will we trust our "memory"
go for a checklist.. before  a project begins so that noise will be down..


complete the usual ritual...
1. copy the hands on pdf and content.
2. ensure you have visual code..


AI tools we should know basics.. and tool will help.

1. complete your html assignment.
2. look at md file... of html..
3. get on with your jdbc assignments 
4  git everybody should be able to show, they are able to make changes in the local repo
and push it 
5. I want to see the status of work items on the board, where are they are present..

ensure you focus on the said thing
0. function design matters in all projects.... so spend time on it..
1. jdbc assignments gets completed.. ( 2 assignment and most important you understood )
2. functional programming.. ( passing function as input argument to another function is need)
get the theory right on functional programming..
3. html whatever worked ok.. we did not touch the hard thing... layout of the page...for
that you need CSS..


let me do my astrology..
1. on java.. writing according to architecture and doing the jdbc for sving currentaccount
( blocker.. 1/5)
2. git.. since we are working on same branch locally and remote.. (5/5)
one system. one remote. one local branch, only thru local branch remote is changing.
ie push..

3. database asisngments are almost comlete..
4. Linux and docker closed episode I dont want vist.. change the color to amber.
5. coming disaster.. small disaster CSS. Big Disaster.. JavaScript if we dont know
functional programming.


why entertainment in db assignment
very simple lack of theory...


class Person //Account
	name;
	age;
	work()


class Police extends Person  //DebitAccount
	policestation  //passowrd
	controlTraffic()


class Doctor extends Person // CreditAccount
	specialization  // 
	doSurger();

	
Person p =new Police();

if(p instanceof Police)
{
	Police x = (Police)p;
	x.controltraffic.
	x.


}
//implication this person cannot control traffic..why p is of type Person
p.controlTraficc();//red line will come 



Account c =new DEbitAccount();
c.getPassword();//tis will not work..


Account c =new CreditAccount();
c.getBonsuPoint or getLimit//this will not work


why did we do Account c=?
we wanted to do runtime polymorphism.
c.performDeposit();
c.performPaymetn();


theory..
By using a reference of super class forget about accessing any exclusive functions
of the subclass, despite the super class refernce pointing to the object of the subclass.


you have to do the hard thing  "tradeoff"
in service layer or repo layer...




service layer.. function..

you have Account reference with you..
reference can have DebitAcount or creditAcount object with it.

repository method
1. insert(Account c)

if( c instanceof DebitAccount)
{
DebitAccount d =(DebitAccount)c;
d.getPassword..
insert into the debit table.  4 values.. id,name,balance, password



}
else if( c instanceof CreditAccount) //RTTI runtime type idenetification
{
	CreditAccount c1 =(CreditAcount)c;
	c1.get
 	insert itno credit able 5 columns id,name, blance, limit, ...


}




Person p =new Police();
the object I have is of Police
but reference i have is of person..




once we come to ORM,w e will see this thigns becomes easy..




  Optional<Account>  findById(int accountno)
who will caxll findById, service method.

in the sreivce method again instanceof...


in real life, we will not create a database connection some libary will create it and give it to us.
opening of connectxion and closing of connection will taken by care by the library our job
is once we get the connection what to do with.. to indicate that let us create a separate config
and keep database configuration..

app
service
repo
 connection will got by calling a function from the config class.
model
config. 







we have repo class, in that there is a function called f1.
there is high probability f1 function of repo class is called by a function f2 of the service 
package.
in f1 if we throw an exception. and not catch it.. it will come to f2 of service function.
f2 function can take a call how to communicat ea message meaningfull to the app layer
or throw the exception, let the app layer and decide what it wants to tell the user.






using the class 
1. call a static function
2. you create an object and call non static function
if you do 1 or 2.. whichever first time static block will get executed..


how will java program talk with the database ( not any particular ddatabase database product
given by the vendor.)

how does java talk to postgres.. jdbc standard.. database vendor must provide a Driver..


please ensure all of you are ok with the architecture ,not being ok
is  red flag.
be ok with functional programming and go thru the theory ,
that is another red flag.
html and CSS we can pick up later on.. little by little.

jdbc assignment sequence completion
menu driven customer assignment  
account, debitaccount and creditaccount assignment.. (this may take some time...)
must be able to code a program if given a scenario by looking at the syntax of existing code..
step by step... 


















